# Remarks by Mr. James Petiver, Apothecary, and Fellow of the Royal Society, on Some Animals, Plants, etc. Sent to Him from Maryland, by the Reverend Mr. Hugh Jones

**Author(s):** James Petiver  
**Year:** 1698  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions (1683-1775)  
**Volume:** 20  
**Pages:** 15 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-102565  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/102565>  

---

II. Remarks by Mr. James Petiver, Apothecary, and Fellow of the Royal Society, on some Animals, Plants, &c. sent to him from Maryland, by the Reverend Mr. Hugh Jones.

SECT I.

Crustaceous Animals.

Testudo terrestris Americana, dorso elato.

I do not find this certainly described by any Author. Its Shell an Inch and a quarter long, and one broad, the Scales about the Edges are Quadrangular, those above Pentangular; he is guarded along the Back with a round Ridge; his Head about the Bigness of our Horse bean; the Orbits of the Eyes very large; his Snowe not very unlike a Parrot's Bill, his upper Jaw including the under; each Foot has four sharp Claws like a Mouse.

His Belly is made up of several thin Scales; whose middle Pair are long and quadrangular, that next the Head and Tail triangular, the rest irregular; his Tail taper, and about half an Inch long.

His whole Body exceeds not the half of a large Walnut.

The Molucca Crab.

Mus Regal. Soc. 120.

In Virginia and several parts of the Continent of America, they call it,
The King Crab.

Mus. Tradec. 8.

A King Crab of the Molucos Island. Hubert's Nat.

Cancer Bont. Hist. Nat. p. 83, Fig. Malâ & Descript.

Cancer Moluccanus Clus. Exot. 128. Fig. opt. Dorfi

Fig. bonâ Dorfi & Ventris ac Descript.

Cancer Molucensis Jonst. Hist. de Exang. Aquat. Tab.

Fig. 1, & 2. sine descript. Mus. Regal. Societ. 120.

Signoc seu Siquenoc Incolis Novae Franciae, Aragneæ

de Mer. nob. Laet. Ind. Occid. 60. Fig. D. & V. opt. &
Desc. Gal. id. Lat.

The whole Structure of this Animal is very remarkable, and particularly his Eyes are wonderfully contrived; viz. Between the fourth and last Pair of Claws on each Side, reckoning from his Mouth (and excluding the small Pair there plac'd) are inserted, as it were, the Rudiments of another Pair or a Claw broken off on each side at the second Joynt or Elbow; On these Extremities, are the Eyes placed (like those on the Horns of Snails) but being under the Covert of a very thick and Opake Shell, Nature in that Place has wonderfully contrived a Transparent Lanthorn, through which the Light is conveyed, whose Superficies very exactly resembles the great Eyes of our large Libelle, or Adderbolts, which to the naked Sight are plainly perceived to be composed of innumerable Globuli; these, like them, are oblong, and guarded with a Testaceous Supercilium.
SECT II.

We proceed next to the Testaceous Animals.

Viz.

SHELLS

Cochlea terrestris major striata, ore compresso. 3.
Cochlea Virginiana Hist. Hist. Conchyl. Lib. I. Fig. 45.

Cochlea terrestris Virginiana media umbilicata, striata, ore unidente compresso. Cochlea umbilicata, capillaceis striis per obliquum donata, unico dente ad fundum oris, Hist. Hist. Conch. L. I. Fig. 91.

Cochlea ter. Virginiana insigniter striata, umbilico magno. 5.
Cochlea umbilicata, fusca, sive variegata, capillaribus striis leviter exasperata Hist. Hist. C. L. I. Fig. 69.

Cochlea ter. Virginiana minor, striata & umbilicata, ore tridentino. 6.
Cochlea parva umbilicata, tenuiter striata, tridens, scil. in triangulo positi, nempe unus ad fundum oris, alter ad columellam, tertius ad labrum Hist. Hist. C. L. I. L. I. F. 92. Fig. 92.

SECT III.

Next to these we place

The Crustaceous Insects:

Being such whose Membranaceous Wings are wholly, or in part, covered with a hard or Crusty Sheath.

Carabaeus Marianus viridis Rhinocerotos. 7.
An Nasticornis Virginianus Mus. Trad. I5? Mus. Trad.
Non 2 Sca- I5?
8. Scarabæus Marianus viridis acerotos.
   These two, I believe, are Male and Female.

9. Scarabæus Marianus minor fulvus, maculis nigricantibus aspersis.

10. Scarabeus verrucosus minor Marianus canof coloris.
    An Scarabæus instar Bufonis Virginianus, Mus. Trad. 16.

11. Scarabæus stramineus minor Marianus, maculis aterrimis diversimodé notatus.

12. Scarabæus oblongus niger Virginianus, vaginis sulcatis dorso plano nitente.
    This my kind Friend, Mr. James Marshal, gave me, who received it from Virginia.

13. Scarabæus elasticus major Americanus capite bimaculato.
    an Cocujas Mof. 111. Fig. id. Angl. 977?
    The first of these I received from my worthy Friend, Mr. Charlton.

This is commonly about an Inch and half long, of which the Head takes up a third part, which is near as broad as long; the Sides are grey or frosty; the Middle black: what in this part is most remarkable, are, two very black oval Spots, in Texture, Colour and Softness much resembling the blackest and finest Velvet, being encompass'd with a whitish Circle.

These orbicular Spots, to most People, at first view seem to be their Eyes, though they are ten times less, and plac'd at the setting on of the Horns, which are about half an Inch long, composed of eight Serræ, or Teeth, notch't on the under side only.

The Vagine or Wing-sheaths are long, black, sulcated and plentifully sprinkled with white Specks, the under Part and Belly is frosted on the Sides and in the Middle of a shining black.
The Structure of this Insect is the same with a peculiar Species I have seen in England, and call Snap-Beetles, from their elastic or springing Faculty, by which (without being fore-warn'd) they will easily force themselves out of your Fingers: I have also frequently observed, that if you lay them on their Backs (they not being able to turn on their Bellies) will spring or raise themselves to a wonderful Height, and that for several times, until they fall on their Legs.

Scarabaeus elasticus medius Marianus hirsutus.  
Scarabaeus elasticoides Marianus, vaginis ex nigro aurantique mixtus.

Cycindela Mariana, The Fire-Fly, vaginis teneris fuscis marginibus fulvis.

Cantharis Anglicae viridis, maculis aureis insignitis.

Cantharis 4 Moff. 145. Fig. id. Angl. 1003. Fig. MoF. 145. Jnst. Insect. Tab. 5. Fig. 4. Lift. Hist. Anim. Angl. 1003. app. Tab. 3. Scarab. Fig. 6.

Fig. 4. Lift. H. A. A. app. Tab. 3. Scar. Fig. 6.

Cantharis Mariana viridis. lituris marginalibus aureis insigniter notata.

The Spots in this are larger and finer marked than the last.

Cantharis Mariana fusca, meandris marginalibus pallidis incurvatis.

Capricornulus nigrescens Marianus, undis & circulis flavescentibus striatus.
Sect IV.

We come now to the Plants, and therein, following the Method of the Learned Mr. Ray in his History, &c. and Dr. Sloane his Catalogue of Jamaica Plants, we shall begin with the less perfect ones:

Viz.

1. Muscus Filicinus Marianus repens pinnis brevioribus. This differs from our common Fern Moss in having shorter Wings set opposite from the middle Rib, which creeps along the Ground, and is not branched.

2. A. Branched Coralline Moss. Mus. Pet. 76. This grows with us very plentifully on most Heaths.

3. Trichomanes major Marianus longifolius, An Trichomanes major foliis longis auriculatis Raii H. H. Pl. 1928.

4. Cornutus his Canada Maiden-hair. Adianthum Americanum Cornuti 7. fig. Virginianum Tradescanti Park. 1050. Fruticosum Americanum Eiusd. Cornut. 7. 1050. Fig. frut. Brasilianum CB. 355. & Prodr. 150. desci frut. Amer. summis ramulis reflexis & in orbem expansis Pluk. Tab. 124. fig. 2.

5. Felix Mariana pinnulis semeniferis angustissimis.

6. Ophioglossum Marianum linguâ dentatâ.

7. A. Gramen Paniceum maximum, spicâ divisa, aristas armatum. Cat. Pl. Jam. 30.

I have added this Synonym because omitted by Dr. Sloane, to whom I refer you for the rest.
Small English Hairy Grasses.

A. Gramen exile hirtutum Ger. 16. fig. id. emac. 17. Ger. 16. fig. Juncus villosus capitulis Psyllii Hist. des Plantes des environ de Paris 105. Raii H. Pl. 1291. Syn. 193 ed. 105. 2. 263.

Gramen Cyperoides minus spicâ parvâ.

A. Millet Cyperus Gras.

Cyperus gramineus Miliaceus Ger. emac. 30. fig. Raii H. Pl. 1171. Synops. 200. ed. 2. 271.

Syn. 200. ed. 2. 271.

Cyperus gramineus paniculâ sparsâ subflavescente.

Alm. Bot. Gramen Cyperoides minus paniculâ sparsâ subflavescente CB. 6. & Gr. Cyp. minimum panicula subflava Phyt. 14. Ejusd. Phyt. 14. Gr. Cyp. pan. sparsâ subflavescente Park. Park. 1268. 1268 Gr. pulchrum parvum paniculâ latâ compressâ IB. L. 18. p. 470. Fig. & Chabr. 184. Raii H. Pl. 1301.

This is found in most watry Places in Germany, Italy, and Provence.

Gramen tomentosum Virginianum paniculâ magis compactâ, aureo colore perfusâ Pluk. Tab. 29. 9. Fig. 4. Χειροποιητό δici possit Alm. Bot. 179.

The least English Ruth.

Juncellus Lobelii Park. 1192. Raii H. Pl. 1304 Syn. 203 ed. 2. 274.

It Flourishes with us in June and July in moist, sandy and boggy Places.

Parietaria foliis ex adverso nascentibus Urticae racemiferae flore Cat. Pl. Jam. 50.

This Dr. Sloane observed to grow plentifully on the Jam. 50. moist and shady Rocks in Jamaica.

Aster Americanus albus latifolius, caule ad summum brachiato Pluk. Tab. 79. Fig. 1. & Alm. Bot. 56.

Dr. Pluknet's Figure very well resembles this Plant, the Leaves are somewhat hairy, and on the back side very full.
full of Veins; they are near three Inches and half long, and somewhat more than an Inch broad; are sharp at each end and Stalkless: The Flowers are white, standing on long Footstalks, and branch towards the top.

This I have observed for some Years growing in our Physick-Garden at Chelsea.

16. *After Marianus, foliis rigidis, floribus parvis umbelliferis.*

17. *After Americanus albus, Mezerei Arabum exasperatis foliis, florum petalis reflexis.* Pluk. Tab. 79. Fig. 2 Alm. Bot. 56.

These Flowers are very small, and stand many together, like an *Eupatorium*; the Scaly Tips are green, the Petals long, white, narrow, and seldom more than five or six in a Flower.

18. *Chrysanthemum Americanum laciniato folio majus* H. Bief. 251.

*Hort. Bief.* & Oxon.

*Hort. Pat.* Bat. H. Gron. & Tradesc. Park. 321. & 2. Fig. Amer. & Gron.

*Hort. L.Bat.* & Tradesc. H. Hafn. Ray H. Pl. 339.

*Park. 32.*

*CB.ap.516.* Ray H. Pl. 339.

19. *Virga aurea Americana Tarragenis facie & sapore,* Pluk. 116. fig. 6. & Alm. Bot.

*panicula speciocissima* Pluk. Tab. 116. fig. 6. & Alm. Bot.

20. *Eupatorium Marianum foliis Melisse rigidioribus.*

An *Eupatoria Valerianoides flore niveo, Teucrii folis cum pediculis Americana* Pluk. Tab. 58. Fig. 3. & Alm. Bot. 141.

21. *Eupatorium Marianum Melisse foliis tenuioribus, floribus purpurascentibus filamentois.*

An *Eupatorium Americanum Melisse foliis magis acuminatis* Pluk. Tab. 87. Fig. 3. & Alm. Bot. 140.

*Baccharis*
Baccharis Marianus flore pulchre rubente. 22.
Flos solis Marianus foliis pyramidalibus scabris ex adverso sessilibus. 23.
Flos solis Marianus foliis latioribus flore mixto. 24.
Flos solis Marianus foliis angustioribus fl. mixto. 25.
Chrysanthemum pilosissimum umbone purpurascente, petalis extus villosis. 26.
Chrysanthemum Marianum foliis abrotani maris. 27.
Nardus Americana procerior foliis cæsis Pluk. Tab. 28.

I have observed this stately Plant for several Years in our Physick Garden at Chelsey, growing more than two Yards high, with Leaves somewhat like our Goosefoot, but much larger, and underneath of an Ash Colour.

Carolina Globe-Tree.

Valerianoides Americana flore globose, Pisaminis folio Mus. Petiv. 293.

Arbor Americana tryphyla, fructu Platani quodammodo amulante; Lignum Fibularium (i.e.) Button-wood nostratis dicta Pluk. Tab. 77. Fig. 3. Alm. Bot. 47.

Scabiola dendroides Americana, ternis foliis circa caulem ambientibus, floribus ochroleucis Alm. Bot. 336.

This formerly grew at the Physick Garden at Chelsey, and this Year I saw it in Mr. William Darby's Garden at Hodgsdon.

I have put this Plant (until I find a more proper Place) next to the Valerians, because its Flowers are very like them.

Lasertium Americanum Fraxini folio Musei Petiv. 255.

Hippopelimum Marianum foliis integris & trifidis.

The lower Leaves are more or less round or pointed, and serrated like our Catha palustris, but much smaller, not exceeding those of the Garden Violet, which they much resemble, these stand on longer or shorter Footstalks, sheathed.
sheathed at the Base, those above are wholly vaginated (or sheathed) and come trifoliate at every Joint; its Flowers are small and yellowish.

32. Our least Water-Parsnip with various Leaves.

*Sium minimum Raii Cat. Angl. & H. Pl. 444. Syn. 67.*

Ray Cat. Angl. ed. 2. 107. min. *Ferulaceis foliis* Hort. Bles. 193, &

--H.Pl.144 309. min. umbellatum foliis variis Pluk. Tab. 61. Fig.

--Syn. 67. 3. pusillum fol. variis ND. Phyt. Brit. aq. pumilum folis

Hort.Bles. inferne Feniculaceis superne lobatis Moris Tab. inedit.

193 &c309.

Pluk. 61. Fig. 3. Phyt. Brit. 114.

33. *Symphylum Marianum foliis Echii latioribus.*

These Leaves are near an Inch broad, and between Two and Three long, are set alternately close to the Stalk, and taper at each end; in Texture very much resembling our Vipers Bugloss, but broader.

34. *Teucrium Marianum spicatum Menthae folio.*

35. Mr. Ray's Virginia Snake-weed.

*Pulegium Virginianum nonnullis, aliis Serpentaria aut*

Ray H. Pl. 534.

H.A.L.Bat. Colubrina Virginiana Raii H. Pl. 534.

161.

Breyn.Pr.2.

Pluk. 54.

Tab. 2.

Alm. Bot. 110.

*Pulegio Cervino quodammodo accedens capitata, Champeityos Austriacæ ceruleæ foliis & facie Breyn. Prod. 2.*

*Satureia Virginiana Herm. P. Bat. 218. Fig. & desc. floribus in summitate dispositis H. A. L. Bat.*

36. Dr. Herman's Virginiana Wild Basil with yellow Flowers.

*Clinopodium Virginianum angustifolium flore luteo D. de Marees H. A. L. Bat. 107. Virg. angustif. floribus amplis luteis purpureo maculatis, cujus caulis sub quovis verticillo 10 vel 12 foliolis rubentibus est circumcinctus D. Banister Alm.*
Alm. Bot. III. Virg. angust. flor. amplis luteis, punctis purpureis Pluk. Tab. 24. Fig. 1.

Origanum floribus amplis luteis purpureo maculatis, cu-
jus caulis sub quovis verticillo 10. vel 12. foliis est cir-
cumcinclus D. Banister Raii H.Pl. 1927.

Horminum Marianum foliis pilis albis asperis. 37.
Scutellaria Virginiana Hyssopi angustis foliis, flore
ceruleo Alm. Bot. 338.

Mr. Banister's Columbine leav'd Crow-foot. 39.

Ranunculus Thalictri folio radice grumosa. D. Banister,
Raii H.Pl. 1927, nemorosus Aquilegiae foliis Virginianus
Asphodeli radice. Pluk, Tab. 106. Fig. 4. & Alm. Bot.
310.

Muntings yellow Passion Flower. 40.

Passiflora Hepaticae nobilis folio parvo non crenato,
flore ex luteo viridante Alm. Bot. 282.

Clematis Passionalis tryphyllos fl. luteo Morif.H.Ox. 6.
Sect. 1. Tab. 2. Fig. 3. Cl. Passiflora fl. luteo Munt. Prax.
422. Fig. opt. seu Flos passionis fl. luteo H. Pisari Belluc:
seu Fl. Pass. luteo flore H. R. Par. Raii H. Pl. 651.

Granadilla pumila fl. parvo. luteo D. Alex. Balam. Cat.
H. Pat. a Turre 55. folio tridentato, parvo flore flaves-
cente El. Bot. 206.

Cucumis Flos Passionis distus, Hederaceo folio, fl. ex lu-
luteo viridanti H. A. L. Bat.

Cornutus his Canada Herb Christopher. 41.

Chrystophoriana Americana racemosa baccis niveis &
rubris Morif. H. Ox. 8. Sect 1. Tab. 2. Fig. opt. 7. Amer.
baccis niveis & rubris Park 379. Fig.

Aconitum baccis niveis & rubris Corn.76. Raii H.Pl.
662.

Mr. Fisher, a Friend of mine, brought me this Root
from Potuxen River in Maryland, and he tells me, they
there call it, Rich-Root, and use it as a specific against
the Scurvy; they boil about a Pound of it in two Gal-
lons
Ions of Cyder, till but two Quarts remain, and being strained, they drink half a Pint of it every Morning, either alone, or mixt with any other Drink.

He assured me it cured him, and several others in the same Ship he came from thence in.

Spike-flowred Meadow-sweet.

CB. 163. Barba Capri Ger. emac. 1043. IB. V. 3. L. . 488.
--Phyt. 276 Fig. Chabr. 488. floribus oblongis CB. 163. Phyt. 276.
Ger. em. Ulmaria major five altera Park. 591. Fig. Raii
1043. Park. 591. H. Pl. 709.
Ray H. Pl.
709.

Gentiana major Virginiana, floribus amplis ochroleu-

Pluk. 186. cis Pluk. Tab. 186. Fig. 1. & Alm. Bot. 166.
Fig. 1. These Leaves are very like those of Sope-wort, and
Alm. Bot. stand cross-wise, or alternately opposite, convoluting the
166. Stalk, which is round.

Its Flowers one Inch and three quarters long and pale, growing towards the top of the Stalk; its Calyx half an Inch deep, and then divides into five narrow greenish Beards three quarters of an Inch long, reaching almost to the Dents or lower Angles of the Flower.

Gentiana major Virginiana, flore caeruleo longiore Morif.

Morif. Tab. Tab. inedit. Fig.
inedit. These Leaves stand also opposite like the last but are much narrower and glaucous underneath.

The Flowers blew, and broader at the Top than the last, and the Segments or Angles, not so sharp nor deeply indented, the Calyx like the other, but the foliaceous Beards shorter.

Erinus Marianus ferè umbellatus, Majoranæ folio.

Perfoliate Venus Looking-glass.

Hort. Reg. Speculum Veneris perfoliatum seu Viola pentagonia
Paris. perfoliata Raii H. Pl. 743.
Morif. H. Campanula pentagonia perfoliata Morif. H. Ox. 457.
Ox. 457. Ray H. Pl.
743. Sect 5. Tab. 2. Fig. 23.

Onobry-
Onobrychis peregrina perfoliata folio rotundiori. Hort.

American Scarlet Cardinal-Flower.

Flos Cardinalis Barberini Col. in Hernand. 880. Fig. Park. Para. 47.
Card. seu Trachelium Americanum H. L. Bat. & H. 355.
Groning. Cardinalitius f. Trachel. Indicum H. Pat. Col. in Her. 880.
Trachelium Americanum rubrum Ferrar. Raii H. Pl. Ferrar.
746. Amer. f. Cardinalis planta Park. parad. 355. Fig. Hort. R.
Amer. fl. ruberrimo f. Planta Cardinalis Eujld. 356. Hafn.
descr. & la Broß. H. R. Par. Indicum Cardinalitium di-
ctum H. R. Hafn. Hort. Gron.
Rapuntium galeatum Virginianum f. Americanum coc-
cineo flore majore Morif. H. Ox. 466. Sect. 5. Tab. 5. 746.

Fig. 54.

Morisons Virginiana Blew Cardinal-Flower. 48.
Rapunculus galeatus Virginianus, flore violaceo majore Robert Icon.
Morif. H. Ox. 466. Sect 5. Tab. Fig. 55. Dodart.
Trachelium Americanum flore caeruleo Icon. Roberti. Mem. 119.
minus Amer. foliis rigidioribus fl. caeruleo patulo Hort.
Reg. Paris. Amer. minus fl. caerul. patulo Dodart. Mem.
119. Raii. H. Pl. 1883. descr.
Campanula minor Americana, foliis rigidis fl. caeruleo
patulo H. A. L. Bat.

Digitalis Mariana Persicæ folio.

This I take to be the Humming Bird Tree, figured in
Josselin's New-England Rarities.

These Leaves stand opposite on half Inch Footstalks,
above four Inches long and three quarters broad.

Digitalis Mariana Filipendulæ folio.

The Flowers of this elegant Plant stand on naked Foot-
stalks near an Inch long, they generally grow by pairs
one against the other, each divided into five equal round
Segments like those of Yellow Tobacco, but three times
bigger; these are set in a Calyx whose Divisions are sim-
briated like a Lobe or Wing of its Leaves. Its Style is
thready, and about an Inch long.
Alektorolophus Marianus Blattariae folio.

These Leaves are deeply cut into eight or ten serrated Lobes, which for the most part stand opposite, each Leaf is about the Length of the Footstalk it stands on, viz. if full grown, five Inches, or thereabouts.

Its Seed-Vessels are oblong pointed Husks, which open on the upper Edge; they grow in a Spike on each side the Stalk, and are guarded, especially the upper Side, with a hoary membranaceous Calyx.

Crateogonon Marianum flore caeruleo.

Turritis Mariana siliquis dependentibus, uno versu dispositis.

The Pods are about two Inches long, flat, somewhat crooked, and end as it were in a blunt spine, they stand on half Inch Footstalks, and are thin set on all sides the Stalks, but have a Tendency only one Way.

Cornutus his Canada Celandine.

Chelidonium maximum Canadense axuλov Corn. 212.

fig. Park. 617. Morif. H. Ox. 257. Sect 3. Tab. 3. Fig: 327.

Raii H. Pl. 1887.

Ranunculus Virginiensis albus Park. 327. Fig. an Vir-

Ox. 257.

Ray H. Pl. ginianus Mus. Trad. 160?

Papaver corniculatum seu Chelidonium humile cauliculo nudo, flore albo stellato Alm. Bot. 280.

Chamaesyce Mariana ramoflissima dichotomos, foliis Polygoni minoribus.

Chamaesyce Mariana Lysimachia campestris Gerardi folio.

N. B. The remaining Herbs and Trees, with some Fossils and Animals, not here mentioned, shall be the Subject of another Paper.

III. Captain