# Back Matter

**Author(s):** Anonymous  
**Year:** 1818  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London  
**Volume:** 108  
**Pages:** 17 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-107485  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/107485>  

---

PRESENTS

RECEIVED BY THE

ROYAL SOCIETY,

From November 1817 to June 1818.

WITH THE

NAMES OF THE DONORS.

1817.

PRESENTS.

DONORS.

Nov. 20. Valor Ecclesiasticus Temp. Hen. VIII. auctoritate regia institutus. Vol. III. 1817. fol.
Transactions of the Geological Society. Vol. IV. pt. 2. London, 1817. 4°
Urh-Cheh-Tsze-Teen-Se-Yin-Pe-Keäou, being a parallel drawn between the two intended Chinese Dictionaries, by the Revd. Robert Morrison, and Antonio Montucci, LL.D. London, 1817. 4°
Commentationes Societatis Regiae Scientiarum Gottingensis Recentiores. Vol. III. ad A. MDCCLXIV-XV. Gottingæ, 1816. 4°
Kongl Vetenskaps Academien Handlingar for År 1815 & 1816. Stockholm, 1815. 8°
A System of Chemistry, by Thomas Thomson. London, 1817. 4 Vols. 8°
A Treatise on the Nature and Cure of Gout and Rheumatism, by Charles Scudamore, M.D. London, 1817. 8°
An Essay on the Nature of Heat, Light, and Electricity, by Charles Carpenter Bompass. London 1817. 3°
Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. Vol.VIII. pt.I. London, 1817. 8°
Racconto Istorico della Vita di Gio Battista della Porta. Napoli, 1813. 8°
Tableau du Climat des Antilles et des Phénomènes de son Influence sur les Plantes, les Animaux, et l'Espèce Humaine, par A. Moreau de Jonnes. Paris, 1817. 8°

The Commissioners of Public Records.
The Geological Society.
Dr. Montucci.
The Royal Society of Sciences of Gottingen.
The Royal Academy of Sciences at Stockholm.
Dr. Thomas Thomson.
Dr. Charles Scudamore.
Charles Carpenter Bompass, Esq.
The Medico-Chirurgical Society.
Francisco Colangelo.
M. de Jonnes.
Nov. 20. Expériences qui sont connaitre qu'on ne peut admettre l'Innocuité de l'Eau de Mer distillé, par B. G. Sage. Paris, 1817.

Mémoires Historiques et Physiques, par B. G. Sage, Paris, 1817.

Extracts (in Russian, Latin, German, and French) from the Regulations of the Imperial Library at St. Petersburgh. St. Petersburgh, 1814.

Canon Pellianus, sive Tabula simplissimam Æquationis celeberrimae $y^2 = ax^2 + 1$ Solutionem pro singulis numeri dati valoribus ab 1 usque ad 1000 in numeris rationalibus iisdemque integris exhibens. Auct. Car. Ferd. Degen. Hauniae, 1817.

Observations on the Casual and Periodical Influence of particular States of the atmosphere on human Health and Disease, particularly Insanity. By Thomas Forster, F. L. S. London, 1817.

Observations on the Phenomena of Insanity, by Thomas Forster, F. L. S. London, 1817.

Astronomisches Jahrbuch für das Jahr 1819. Berlin, 1816.

Annals of Philosophy, No. 56 to 58.

The Monthly Review from July to Oct. 1817, and Appendix to Vol. LXXVIII.

The Philosophical Magazine, No. 231 to 234.

The European Magazine from July to Oct. 1817.

Histoire de l'Astronomie Ancienne, par M. Delambre. Paris, 1817, 2 Vols.

Tables écliptiques des Satellites de Jupiter, par M. Delambre. Paris, 1817.

Essai historique sur le Problème des Trois Corps, ou Dissertation sur la Théorie des Mouvements de la Lune et des Planètes. Abstraction faite de leur Figure, par Alfred Gautier. Paris, 1817.

Traité des Caractères physiques des Pierres précieuses, pour servir à leur Détermination lorsqu'elles ont été taillées, par M. l'Abbé Haüy. Paris, 1817.

Transactions of the Horticultural Society of London. Vol. II. pt. 6. London, 1817.

Physiological Lectures, exhibiting a General View of Mr. Hunter's Physiology, and his Researches on Comparative Anatomy, by John Abernethy, F.R.S. London, 1817.

The Zoological Miscellany, being Descriptions of new or Interesting Animals, by William Elford Leach, M.D. Vol. III. London, 1817.

Os Lusiadas, Poema Epico de Luis de Camoës, nova edição correcta, e dada á luz por Dom Joze Maria de Souza Botelho. Paris, 1817.
Nov. 20. Vetusta Monumenta, Plates i-xviii. of Vol. V.

Archæologia (2d part of Vol. XVIII.) or Miscellaneous Tracts relating to Antiquity, published by the Society of Antiquaries of London, 1817. 4°

Flora Capensis, sistens Plantas Promontorii Bonae Spei Africae secundum Systema Sexualis emendatum, redactas ad Classes, Ordines, Genera, et Species, cum differentis specificis, synonymis, et descriptionibus. Volum. I. fasc. 1. Upsalia, 1817. 8°

Dissertatio Botanica de Dracæna.

Reformandæ Pharmacopœiæ Suecicæ Specimen 6 et 7.

D. D. Museum Naturalium Academiae Upsaliensis App. 9, et 11-17.

Report of the Committee of the Hon. House of Commons on the Employment of Boys in Sweeping of Chimneys, together with the Minutes of Evidence taken before the Committee, and an Appendix. London, 1817. 8°

27. Calculum Differentiæ Longitudinum Geographiarum Locorum duorum ubi Observatio Stellæ a Lunâ occultata facta est, explicavit simulque calculum conjunctionis Veneris cum Regulo, Anno 1817 expectandæ, et Indicem Erratorum in Tabulis Solis ac Lunæ, quas edidit Le Bureau des Longitudes de France, adjecit Fridericus Guilielmus Toennies. Dr. Philos. Berolini, 1816. 8°

Observations sur le Système Métrique des Peuples Anciens les plus connus, appliqué aux distances Itinéraires, par P. A. Latreille. Paris, 1817. 8°

Chart of the Variation of the Magnetic Needle for all the known Seas comprehended within Sixty Degrees of Latitude North and South, with a new and accurate delineation of the Magnetic Meridians, accompanied with suitable Remarks and Illustrations, by Thomas Yeates, 1817, 2 sheets.

Dec. 11. Inaugural Address delivered in the Chapel of the University of Cambridge, Dec. 11, 1816, by Jacob Bigelow, M. D. &c. Boston, 1817. 8°

Annals of Philosophy, No. 60.

Philosophical Magazine, No. 235.

Monthly Review for November.

European Magazine for November.

Jan. 8. Quomodo ex Observatione Occultationis Stellæ fixæ a Lunâ effectæ Longitudo Geographica Loci observationis computetur explicavit Frid. Guil. Toennies. Berolini, 1816. 4°

The Society of Antiquaries.

Car. Pet. Thunberg.

Professor C. P. Thunberg.

William Tooke, Esq.

Dr. F. Gul. Toennies.

M. P. A. Latreille.

Mr. Thomas Yeates.

The Corporation of the University of Cambridge, United States.

Dr. Thomas Thomson.

Mr. Alexander Tilloch.

Mr. G. E. Griffiths.

The Editor.

Frid. Guil Toennies.
1818.

Jan. 8. Astronomisches Jahrbuch für das Jahr 1820. Berlin 1817.

Essai Philosophique sur les Probabilités, par M. Le Comte Laplace, 3ème edition. Paris, 1816. 8°

Mémoire sur le Mouvement des Fluides dans les Tubes capillaires, et l’Influence de la Température sur ce Mouvement, par P. S. Girard. Paris, 1817.

Mémoire sur les Mesures Agraires des Anciens Égyptiens, par M. P. S. Girard.

Observations sur la Vallée d’Égypte et sur l’Exhaussement Séculaire du Sol qui la recouvre, par M. P. S. Girard.

Magna Britannia, being a concise Topographical Account of the several Counties of Great Britain, by the Rev. Daniel Lysons, A.M., and Samuel Lysons, Esq. Vol. V. London, 1817.

Librorum impressorum qui in Museo Britannico adservantur Catalogus. Lond. 1813, &c., Vols I.-VI.

Medico Chirurgical Transactions, published by the Medical and Chirurgical Society, Vol.VIII. London, 1817.

A Journal of Science and the Arts, No. 8.

Annals of Philosophy, No. 61.

The Philosophical Magazine, No. 236.

The Monthly Review for December.

The European Magazine for December.

Descrizione ed uso di una nuova Scala da applicarsi al Barometro per conoscere l'altezze dei luoghi senza calcolo, di Jacopo Bertoncelli. Verona, 1817.

The Life of Robert Fulton, by his friend Cadwalader D. Colden. New York, 1817.

A Geographical Description of the State of Louisiana, the Southern part of the State of Mississippi and Territory of Alabama, by William Darby. New York, 1817.

Observations on the Geology of the United States of America, with some remarks on the effect produced on the nature and fertility of soils by the Decomposition of the different classes of Rocks, by William Maclure. Philadelphia, 1817.

Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. Vol. I. Nos. 2 and 3.

Report of a Committee of the Linnean Society of New England relative to a large Marine Animal, supposed to be a Serpent, seen near Cape Ann, Massachusetts, in August, 1817. Boston, 1817.

Professor Bode.

The Marquis de Laplace

M. M. P. S. Girard.

Revd. Dan. Lysons, and Samuel Lysons, Esq.

The Trustees of the British Museum.

The Medical and Chirurgical Society.

The Managers of the Royal Institution.

Dr. Thomas Thomson.

Mr. A. Tillock.

Mr. G. E. Griffiths.

The Editor.

Sig. Jacopo Bertoncelli.

Dr. David Hosack.

The Academy of Natural Sciences at Philadelphia.

The Linnean Society of New England.
1818.

Jan. 15. The Nautical Almanac and Astronomical Ephemeris for the years 1819 and 1820. 8°

22. Connoissance des Tems pour l'An 1820. Paris, 1818. 8°

Feb. 5. Astronomische Beobachtungen auf der Königlichen Universität Sternwarte in Königsberg von F. W. Bessel, zweite Abtheilung vom 1 Januar bis 31 Decem. 1815. Königsberg, 1818. fol.

Annals of Philosophy, No. 62.
The Philosophical Magazine, No. 237.
The Monthly Review for January, and Appendix to Vol. LXXXIV.
The European Magazine for January.

12. Annales des Mines, Vol. I. and Nos. 1, 2, 3, of Vol. II.
Surgical Essays by Astley Cooper and Benjamin Travers, Part I. London, 1818. 8°

19. Marine Surveys, 10 Sheets, by Officers in the Service of the Hon. East India Company, viz.
A Chart of Goa and Murmagoa Roads.
A Survey of the Reef and Point of Palmiras.
A Survey of the River Choo Keang, or Tigris.
A Survey of Canton River.
Plan of Oic Haie Harbour.
Trigonometrical Plan of Ki-san-seu, or Zea-oo-Tao Harbour.
A Plan of Mathurin Bay.
Continuation of the Coast of China from Breaker Point to Lamak Island.
Charts exhibiting the Tracts of the Hon. East India Company's Ships, Discovery and Investigator, in the Yellow Sea, when accompanying the Embassy under His Excellence Lord Amherst.
Plan of Appo Shoal and Islands adjacent.
Index Testaceologicus, or a Catalogue of Shells, British and Foreign, arranged according to the Linnean System, &c. by W. Wood, F. R. S. and L. S. London, 1818. 8°

The first Centenary of concise and useful Tables of complete Decimal Quotients, &c. by Henry Goodwyn, Esq. London, 1818. 4°

A Meteorological Map of the Weather at Kinfauns Castle. N. B. For the year 1817.

26. Nos. IX. X. XI. XII. XIII. of Addenda et Corrigenda to the Edition of the Hippolytus Stephanophoros of Euripides, by the Hon. F. H. Egerton.

Memoirs of the Wernerian Natural History Society, Vol. II. pt. 2, for the years 1814, 1815, 1816. Edinburgh, 1818. 8°

Donors.

The Commissioners of the Board of Longitude
Le Bureau des Longitudes de France.
Professor Bessel.

The Editors.
Mr. A. Tilloch.
Mr. G. E. Griffiths.

The Editor.
Le Conseil Général des Mines de France.
Astley Cooper and Benj. Travers, Esq.

The Court of Directors of the Hon. East India Company.

Mr. William Wood.

Henry Goodwin, Esq.

Lord Grey.

The Hon. Francis Henry Egerton.

The Wernerian Natural History Society.
March 5. Narrative of an Expedition to explore the River Zaire, usually called the Congo, in South Africa, in 1816, under the direction of Captain J. K. Tuckey, R. N. 1818.

Appendix to Vol. I. of the Synopsis Morborum, and preface and title page to second Edition.

The Transactions of the Linnean Society of London. Vol. XII. pt. 1.

Annals of Philosophy, No. 63.

The Philosophical Magazine, No. 51.

The Monthly Review for February.

The European Magazine for February.

A Description of the Collection of Ancient Marbles in the British Museum, with Engravings, Part III. London, 1818.

Précis Historique des Mémoires publiés sur l'Eau de Mer. Paris, 1817.

But de la Nature dans la formation quotidienne du Sel dans l'Eau de Mer. Paris, 1818.

Petition de B. Sage, &c. à S. Ex. le Ministre de l'Intérieur. Paris, 1818.

Phénomènes que présente le déestruction des Corps des Animaux après leur Mort. Paris, 1817.

A Course of Instruction originally composed for the use of the Royal Engineer Department, by C. W. Pasley, Capt. R. E. London, 1814, 3 Vols.

Essay on the Military Policy and Institutions of the British Empire, by C. W. Pasley, &c. &c. 4th Edition, part 1. London, 1814.

The Elgin Marbles, with an abridged Historical and Topographical account of Athens, by the Rev. E. I. Burrow, A. M. &c. London, 1817, Vol. I.

Elements of Conchology according to the Linnean System, illustrated by 28 plates drawn from Nature, by the Rev. E. I. Burrow. London, 1815.

Traité complet de Mécanique appliquée aux Arts, par M. J. A. Borgnis. Paris, 1818.

Supplément à la Théorie Analytique des Probabilités.

On the Effects of Compression and Dilatation in altering the polarising Structure of doubly refracting Crystals, by Dr. Brewster, LL. D. Edinburgh, 1818.

Verbesserung der Luftschiffahrt von Erasmus Lennig, Mainz 1818.

April 2. Annals of Philosophy, No. 64.

The Philosophical Magazine, No. 239.

The Monthly Review for March.

Mr. John Murray.

Dr. Robert Robertson.

The Linnaean Society.

The Editors.

Mr. A. Tilloch.

Mr. G. E. Griffiths.

The Editor.

The Trustees of the British Museum.

B. G. Sage.

Lieut. Col. C.W. Pasley

The Revd. E. I. Burrow.

M. I. A. Borgnis.

Le Marquis Laplace.

Dr. David Brewster.

Erasmus Lennig.

The Editors.

Mr. Alex. Tilloch.

Mr. G. E. Griffiths.
1818.

April 2. The European Magazine for March. Journal of Science and the Arts, No. 9.

A Map of the North Polar Regions, by Henry Martin Leake, Lieut. R. N.

9. Transactions of the Society instituted at London for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce. Vol. XXXV. London, 1818. 8°

Is it possible to Free the Atmosphere of London in a very considerable degree from the Smoke and deleterious Vapours with which it is hourly impregnated?

Trattato Teoretico Pratico su la Raccolta del Nitro di Pietro Pulli, Tomo I. Napoli, 1813. 8°

Statistica Nitraria del Regno di Napoli del Cav. Pietro Pulli. Tomo II. Napoli, 1817. 8°

16. The Travels of Marco Polo, a Venetian, in the 13th Century, translated from the Italian, with Notes, by W. Marsden, F. R. S. &c. London, 1818.

Merkwurdige Phanomene an und durch verschiedene Prismen-zur richtigen Wurdigung der Newtonschen und der von Gothischen farbenlehre. Von Dr. J. Friedrich Werneburg. Nurnberg, 1817. 4°

Ueber die zeitheridge Bestimmung der Dauereines pendel Schlags und der Fallhöhe in einer Sekunde, von Dr. J. Friedrich Werneburg. Eisenach, 1817. 4°

Meteorologisches Jahrbuch von 1814 und 1815, von Canonicus Augustin Stark, &c. Augsburg, 1817, 4to.

A Plaister Cast of the late Charles Burney, D. D.

23. A Dictionary of the Chinese Language, containing all the Characters which occur in the original Chinese Dictionary in 32 volumes, compiled and published in A. D. 1716, by order of H. M. Kang-He, Emperor of China, by the Rev. R. Morrison. Vol. I. part 1 and 2. Macao, 1815-1816. 4°

Dialogues and detached Sentences in the Chinese Language, with a free and verbal translation in English. Macao, 1816. 8°

The Principles and Application of Imaginary Quantities. Books 1 and 2, by Benjamin Gompertz, Esq. London, 1817 and 1818. 4°

30. Practical Observations on the treatment of the diseases of the prostate Gland, by Sir Everard Home, Bart. Vol. II. London, 1818. 8°

Remarks on the Organization of the Corps of Artillery in the British Service. London, 1818. 8°

Donors.

The Editor.
The Managers of the Royal Institution.
Lieut. H. M. Leake, R. N.
The Society for the Encouragement of Arts, &c.
William Frend, Esq.
Pietro Pulli.
William Marsden, Esq.
Dr. J. F. Werneburg.
Professor Stark.
The Rev. Charles Parr Burney.
The Court of Directors of the Hon. East India Company.
Benjamin Gompertz.
Sir E. Home, Bart.
The Author.
1813.

PRESENTS.

April 30. Mémoire sur la Marine des Anciens, par J. M. Henry. Paris, 1817. 8°
Annals of Philosophy, No. 65.
The Philosophical Magazine, No. 240.

May 7. Reflections concerning the expediency of a Council of the Church of England and the Church of Rome being holden, with a view to accommodate Religious Differences and to promote the unity of Religion in the Bond of Peace, &c. by Samuel Wix, A. M. &c. London, 1818. 8°
The Monthly Review for April.
The European Magazine for April.

21. Mémoires de l'Academie Imperiale des Sciences, Litterature et Beaux Arts de Turin, pour les Annees 1811-1812, 2 Vols. Turin, 1813. 4°
Mémoires sur les Integrales definies, par M. Plana. 4°

27. Mémoire sur les Oscillations des Lames Elastiques, par M. Plana. 4°
Mémoire sur la Latitude et la Longitude de l'Observatoire de l'Academie de Turin, par M. Plana. 4°
Mémoires Géologiques sur les Terreins formés sous l'Eau douce par les debris fossiles des Mollusques vivant sur la terre ou dans l'eau non salée, par J. Daudebart de Ferussac. Paris, 1814. 4°

28. Histoire du Passage des Alps par Annibal, par J. A. De Luc. Geneve, 1818. 8°
Notice Historique sur M. Moysant par M. Herbert. Caen. 8°
Annual Report of the Royal Academy of Sciences, Arts, and Belles Lettres, and Society of Agriculture and Commerce of Caen.
Considerations respecting Cambridge, more particularly relating to its Botanical Professorship. London, 1818. 8°
A History of Whitby and Streoneshalh Abbey, with a Statistical Survey of the vicinity, to the distance of 25 miles, by the Rev. George Young. Whitby, 1817, 2 Vol. 8°

June 4. Transactions of the Horticultural Society of London. Vol. II. pt. 7; and Vol. III. pt. 1. London, 1818. 4°
Additional Bye Laws of the Horticultural Society of London. London, 1817. 4°
An Introduction to Entomology, or Elements of the Natural History of Insects, with Plates, by W. Kirby, A. M. and W. Spence, Esq. (third edition.) London, 1818. 8°
Monographia Apum Angliae, or an attempt to divide into their natural Genera and Families such species of the Linnean genus Apis, as have been discovered in England, by W. Kirby, A. M. Ipswich, 1802, 2 Vols. 8°

DONORS.

M. J. M. Henry.
The Editor.
Mr. Alexander Tilloch.
Rev. Samuel Wix.

Mr. G. E. Griffiths.
The Editor.
The Imperial Academy at Turin.
M. Plana.

M. de Ferussac.

M. J. A. De Luc.
John Spenser Smith, Esq.

Sir James Edward Smith.

Rev. George Young.

The Horticultural Society of London.

Rev. W. Kirby.
June 4. The Family Shakespear, in Ten Volumes, in which nothing is added to the original Text, but those words and expressions are omitted which cannot, with propriety, be read aloud in a Family, by Thomas Bowdler, Esq. F. R. S. &c. London, 1818.

Memoir relative to the Annular Eclipse of the Sun, which will happen on September 7, 1820, by Francis Baily. London, 1818.

Report of the Committee of the London Infirmary for curing Diseases of the Eye, occasioned by the False and calumnious Statements contained in a Letter addressed by Sir William Adams to the Right Hon. and Hon. the Directors of Greenwich Hospital. London, 1818.

Syllabus of a Course of Botanical Lectures by S. Rootsey, F. L. S. to which is prefixed a Poem upon the Importance of the Study of Botany, by Mrs M. Turner of Bath. Bristol, 1818.

Annals of Philosophy, No. 66.

The Philosophical Magazine, No. 241.

The European Magazine for May.

The Monthly Review for May, and Appendix to Vol 85.

Shums ool Loghat, or a Dictionary of the Persian and Arabic Languages, the Interpretation being in Persia, comprising also such words of the Turkish Language as occur in the works of Persian and Arabic Authors, compiled from original Dictionaries of authority in those languages by learned Natives, under the inspection of Joseph Barretto, junior. Calcutta, 1806, 2 Vols.

A Dictionary of the Persian and Arabic Languages, by Joseph Barretto, junior. Calcutta, 1804, 2 Volumes.

Astronomical Observations made at the Radcliffe Observatory at Oxford from May 1, 1817, to May 1, 1818, by the Rev. Abram Robertson, D.D. &c. Fol. MS.

Transactions of the American Philosophical Society held at Philadelphia for promoting useful Knowledge. Vol. I. New Series. Philadelphia, 1818.

Essai Sur l'Ordre considéré dans l'Administration publique et dans les Sciences, par Auguste Jullien, &c. Paris, 1818.

Chart of the Strait of Sunda, by James Horsburgh, 1 sheet.

Thomas Bowdler, Esq.

Francis Baily, Esq.

The Committee of the London Infirmary for curing Diseases of the Eye.

S. Rootsey, Esq.

The Editors.

Mr. A. Tilloch.

The Editor.

Mr. G. E. Griffiths.

J. Barretto, junior, Esq.

The Trustees under the will of the late Dr. Radcliffe.

The American Philosophical Society.

M. A. Jullien.

James Horsburgh, Esq.
INDEX

TO THE

PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS

FOR THE YEAR 1818.

A

Acid, lithic or uric, description of an acid principle prepared from it, 420
Amphibia, on the urinary organs and secretions of some of that class of animals, 303
Arc on the Meridian, an abstract of the results deduced from the measurement of one, extending from latitude $8^\circ 9' 38''$, 4, to latitude $18^\circ 3' 23''$, 6, N. being an amplitude of $9^\circ 53' 45''$, 2. 486
Asia, a memoir on the geography of the north eastern part of it, and on the question whether Asia and America are contiguous, or are separated by the sea, 9
Astronomical observations and experiments, selected for the purpose of ascertaining the relative distances of clusters of stars, and of investigating how far the power of our telescopes may be expected to reach into space, when directed to ambiguous celestial objects, 429
Atmosphere, of the correction for the buoyancy of it, 62
Axes, on the character, number, and position of those by which the tints are produced, 229

B

Blood, on the changes it undergoes in the act of coagulation, 172
—some additions to the foregoing paper on this subject, 185
INDEX.

Blood, globules of, in the human body, their diameter measured, 173
———, are neither of the same size, nor the same shape in all animals, 174
Braces, diagonal, on the great strength given to ships of war by the application of them, 1
Brewster, David, LL. D. On the laws of polarisation and double refraction in regularly crystallized bodies, 199
Brinkley, John, D. D. On the parallax of certain fixed stars, 275
Burney, Capt. James. A memoir on the geography of the north eastern part of Asia, and on the question whether Asia and America are contiguous, or are separated by the sea, 9

C

Caloric, new experimental researches on some of the leading doctrines of it; particularly on the relation between the elasticity, temperature, and latent heat of different vapours; and on thermometric admeasurement and capacity, 338
Capacity, on the doctrines of, 378
Celestial objects, of a method to represent the profundity of them in space by a diagram, 451
——— remarks on those that are ambiguous, 460
——— ambiguous, of the extent of the power of our telescopes to reach into space when they are directed to them, 466
Chlorine, on the fallacy of the experiments in which water is said to have been formed by its decomposition, 169
Crystals, on those which produce double refraction, 205
——— on those with one apparent axis of polarisation, 210
Crystals, a list of those with one apparent axis of double refraction and polarisation, 211
——— on those with two or more axes of polarisation, 221
——— on the polarising structure of those that have the cube, the regular octohedron, and the rhomboidal dodecahedron for their primitive form, 254
——— on the laws of double refraction in those with any number of axes, 267
——— doubly refracting, a table of them, 207
INDEX.

Crystals, doubly refracting, on the artificial imitation of all the classes of them, by means of plates of glass, 259

Davy, Sir Humphrey, Bart. On the fallacy of the experiments in which water is said to have been formed by the decomposition of chlorine, 169
New experiments on some of the combinations of phosphorus, 316
Davy, John, M.D. On the urinary organs and secretions of some of the amphibia, 303
Delphinus Gangeticus, a description of its teeth, 417

Fibres, muscular, examination of them, 175
Fossil remains of an animal, additional facts respecting some, on the subject of which two papers have been printed in the Philosophical Transactions, showing that the bones of the sternum resemble those of the ornithorhynchus paradoxus, 24
Functions, circulating, and on the integration of a class of equations of finite differences into which they enter as coefficients, 144

Granville, Augustus Bozzi, M.D. On a mal-conformation of the uterine system in women; and on some physiological conclusions to be derived from it, 308
Greatorex, Thomas, Esq. Observations on the heights of mountains in the north of England, 117

Heart wood of trees, on the office of it, 137
Herschel, John F.W., Esq. On circulating functions, and on the integration of a class of equations of finite differences into which they enter as coefficients, 144
Herschel, Sir William, Knt. Guelp. Astronomical observations and experiments, selected for the purpose of ascertaining the relative distances of clusters of stars, and of investigating how far the power of our telescopes may be expected to reach into space, when directed to ambiguous celestial objects, 429
INDEX.

HOME, SIR EVERARD, BART. Additional facts respecting the fossil remains of an animal, on the subject of which two papers have been printed in the Philosophical Transactions, showing that the bones of the sternum resemble those of the ornithorhynchus paradoxus,

The Croonian Lecture. On the changes the blood undergoes in the act of coagulation,

Some additions to the Croonian Lecture, on the changes the blood undergoes in the act of coagulation,

A description of the teeth of the Delphinus Gangeticus,

K

KATER, CAPT. HENRY. An account of experiments for determining the length of the pendulum vibrating seconds in the latitude of London,

On the length of the French Mètre estimated in parts of the English standard,

Knife edges, of the apparatus and methods employed for the measurement of the distance between them (in Capt. Kater's experiments,) and for the comparison of the British standard measures of the highest authority,

KNIGHT, THOMAS ANDREW, ESQ. On the office of the heart wood of trees,

L

LAMBTON, COL. WILLIAM. An abstract of the results deduced from the measurement of an arc on the meridian, extending from latitude 8° 9' 38", 4, to latitude 18° 3' 23", 6, N. being an amplitude of 9° 53' 45", 2.

LA PLACE, M. A concise demonstration of a curious and important theorem discovered by him,

Lecture, Croonian, on the changes the blood undergoes in the act of coagulation,

Some additions to it,

Lizards, of their urinary organs and urine,

M

Materials, an account of experiments made on the strength of them,

Description of an apparatus used in measuring the strength of them,

MDCCCVIII.
INDEX.

Mètre à bouts, comparison of the Mètre so called, 107
Mètre à traits, comparison of the Mètre so called, 105
Mètre, French, on the length of it estimated in parts of the English standard, 103
Milky way, at the profundity beyond which the gaging powers of our instruments cannot reach, is not an ambiguous object, 462
Mountains, observations on the heights of some in the north of England, 395
height of, Dr. Maskelyne's rules for determining it cited, 402
Dr. Hutton's rules for determining it cited, 403
Mulberry, black, on the colouring matter of this fruit, 114

P

Paper, sugar-loaf, some remarks on its colour and properties, 113
Parallax, on that of certain fixed stars, 275
on that of the fixed stars in right ascension, 481
on that of α Aquilæ, 477
Pendulum vibrating seconds in the latitude of London, an account of experiments for determining the length of it, 33
of the method of deducing the length of it, 62
length of it, 87
description of one employed in the foregoing experiments, 37
measurement of it, 55
expansion of it, 60
method of determining the number of vibrations made by it in 24 hours, 43
Phosphorus, new experiments on some of the combinations of it, 316
Polarisation and double refraction, on their laws in regularly crystallized bodies, 199
Polarising forces, on the resolution and combination of them, and the reduction of all crystals to crystals with two or more axes, 245
Pond, John, Esq. On the different methods of constructing a catalogue of fixed stars, 405
On the parallax of α Aquilæ, 477
INDEX.

Pond, John, Esq. On the parallax of the fixed stars in right ascension, 481
Poppy, corn, experiments on its colouring matter, 115
Presents, a list of those made to the Royal Society from November 1817, to June 1818, 519
Prochaska, his account of experiments on the brain, when subjected to minute microscopical observations, noticed, 177
Prout, William, M.D. A description of an acid principle prepared from the lithic or uric acid, 420
Purpuric acid, a name given to an acid principle prepared from the lithic or uric acid, 421
Purpurates, a name given to the compounds of the purpuric acid with different bases, 423

R

Rennie, George, Esq. An account of experiments made on the strength of materials, 118
Rings or isochromatic curves, on the form of them, and on the nature of the tints in crystals with more than one axis, 226

S

Sap-green, some facts respecting the colour of this pigment, 116
Seppings, Robert, Esq. On the great strength given to ships of war by the application of diagonal braces, 1
Serpents, of their urinary organs and urine, 303
———on the structure of their poisonous fangs, 471
Skiddaw a geometrical admeasurement of that mountain, 395
Smith, Thomas, Esq. On the structure of the poisonous fangs of serpents, 471
Smithson, James, Esq. A few facts relative to the colouring matter of some vegetables, 110
Stars, clusters of, of the assumed semblance of them, when seen through telescopes that have not light and power sufficient to show their nature and construction, 463
———on their distance, 430
———a series of observations upon them, from which the order of their profundity in space is determined, 481
Stars, fixed, on the parallax of some of them, 275
———on the different methods of constructing a catalogue of them, 405
INDEX.

Stars, fixed, on the parallax of those in right ascension, 481

T

Thermometric admeasurement, remarks on it, and on the doctrine of capacity, 370
Tints for all crystals with one or more axes, on the general law of them, 234
Turnsol, its colouring matter, 110
Turtle and tortoise, of their urinary organs and urine, 306

V

Vapours, on their elastic force, with new formulæ to determine it at any temperature; and a review of those given by Dalton and Biot, 338
——— on their latent heat, 386
Vegetables, a few facts relative to the colouring matter of some of them, 110
Violet, of its colouring matter, 112

U

Ure, Andrew, M. D. New experimental researches on some of the leading doctrines of caloric; particularly on the relation between the elasticity, temperature, and latent heat of different vapours; and on thermometric admeasurement and capacity, 338
Urinary organs and secretions, on those belonging to some of the class of the amphibia, 303
Uterine system in women, on a mal-conformation of it; and on some physiological conclusions to be derived from it, 308

W

Women, on a mal-conformation of the uterine system in them; and on some physiological conclusions to be derived from it, 308

Y

Young, Thomas, M. D. Appendix to Capt. Kater's paper entitled "an account of experiments for determining the length of the pendulum vibrating seconds in the latitude of London." 95

From the Press of
W. BULMER & Co.
Cleveland-row, St. James's,
London.