# Catalogue of Double Stars. By William Herschel, Esq. F. R. S.

**Author(s):** William Herschel  
**Year:** 1785  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London  
**Volume:** 75  
**Pages:** 89 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-106749  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/106749>  

---

VI. Catalogue of Double Stars.

By William Herschel, Esq. F. R. S.

Read December 9, 1784.

Introductory Remarks.

The great use of Double Stars having been already pointed out in a former paper, on the Parallax of the Fixed Stars, and in a latter one, on the Motion of the Solar System, I have now drawn up a second collection of 434 more, which I have found out since the first was delivered.

The happy opportunity of giving all my time to the pursuit of astronomy, which it has pleased the Royal Patron of this Society to furnish me with, has put it in my power to make the present collection much more perfect than the former; almost every double star in it having the distance and position of its two stars measured by proper micrometers; and the observations have been much oftener repeated.

The method of classing them is in every respect the same as that which has been used in the first collection; for which reason I refer to the introductory remarks that have been given with that collection * for an explanation of several particulars necessary to be previously known. The numbers of the stars are here also continued, so that the first class ending there at

* See Philosophical Transactions, vol. LXXII. p. 112.
Mr. Herschel's Catalogue of Double Stars.

24 begins here at 25, and the same is done with the other classes.

Most of the double stars in my first collection are among the number of those stars which have their places determined in Mr. Flamsteed's extensive catalogue; but of this collection many are not contained in that author's work, I have therefore adopted a method of pointing them out, which it will be proper to describe.

The finder of my reflector is limited, by a proper diaphragm, to a natural field of two degrees of a great circle in diameter. The intersection of the cross wires, in the center of it, points out one degree; and by the eye this degree, or the distance from the center to the circumference, may be divided into $\frac{1}{4}$, $\frac{1}{2}$, $\frac{3}{4}$, $\frac{1}{3}$, and $\frac{2}{3}$. Thus we are furnished with a measure which, though coarse, is however sufficiently accurate for the purpose here intended; and which, if more than two degrees are wanted, may be repeated at pleasure.

In such measures as these I have given the distance of a double star, whose place I wanted to point out, from the nearest star in Flamsteed's Catalogue. And since, besides the distance, it is also required to have its position with regard to the star thus referred to, I have used the neighbouring stars for the purpose of pointing it out.

The usefulness of this method is so extensive, that I shall be a little more particular in describing its application. When a star is thus pointed out, as for instance the 32d in the first class, where it is said, "About $\frac{3}{4}$ degree f. preceding the 44th Lyncis," "in a line parallel to θ Ursae majoris and the 39th Lyncis;" we are to apply one eye to the finder, and placing the 44th Lyncis into the center of the field, we are to look at θ Ursae majoris and the 39th Lyncis in the heavens with the other eye by the
side of the finder. The naked eye then will immediately direct us, by means of the two stars just mentioned, towards the place where, in the finder, the armed eye will perceive the double star in question about $\frac{1}{4}$ degree from the 44th Lyngis. I need hardly observe, that we must recollect the inversion of the finder, as those who are in the habit of using telescopes with high powers, always furnished with inverting finders, will of course look for the small star in the upper part of the field, as in fig. 1.

At the 45th star, in the first class, the description says, "About $1\frac{1}{4}$ degree f. preceding $\mu$, towards $\iota$ Aurigae." This double star will accordingly be found by placing $\mu$ Aurigae first into the center of the finder; then, drawing the telescope towards $\iota$, which the naked eye points out, the star we look for will begin to appear in the circumference as soon as $\mu$ is about $\frac{1}{4}$ degree removed from the center, as in fig. 2.

It will sometimes happen, that other stars are very near those which are thus pointed out, that might be mistaken for them. In such cases an additional precaution has been used by mentioning some circumstance either of magnitude or situation, to distinguish the intended star from the rest. After all, if any observer should be still at a loss to find these stars without having their right ascension and declination, he may furnish himself with them by means of Flamsteed's Atlas Coelestis; for my description will be sufficiently exact for him to make a point in the maps to denote the star's place; then, by means of the graduated margin, he will have its AR and declination to the time of the Atlas, which he may reduce to any other period by the usual computations.

Before I quit this subject I must remark, that it will be found on trial, that this method of pointing out a double star is not only
only equal, but indeed superior, to having its right ascension and declination given: for, since it is to be viewed with very high powers, not such as fixed instruments are generally furnished with, the given right ascension and declination would be of no service. We might, indeed, find the star by a fixed or equatorial instrument; and, taking notice of its situation with regard to other neighbouring stars, find, and view it afterwards, by a more powerful telescope; but this will nearly amount to the very same way which here is pursued, with more deliberate accuracy than we are apt to use, while we are employed in seeking out an object to look at.

It will be required, that the observer should be furnished with Flamsteed's Atlas Coelestis, which must have the stars marked from the author's catalogue, by a number easily added to every star with pen and ink, as I have done to mine. The catalogue should also be numbered by an additional column, after that which contains the magnitudes. I hope in some future editions of the Atlas to see this method adopted in print, as the advantage of it is very considerable, both in referring to the catalogue for the place of a star laid down in the Atlas, and in finding a star in the latter whose place is given in the former.

I would recommend a precaution to those who wish to examine the closest of my double stars. It relates to the adjustment of the focus. Supposing the telescope and the observer long enough out in the open air to have acquired a settled temperature, and the night sufficiently clear for the purpose; let the focus of the instrument be re-adjusted with the utmost delicacy upon a star known to be single, of nearly the same altitude, magnitude, and colour, as the star which is to be examined, or upon one star above and another below the
Let the phenomena of the adjusting star be well attended to; as, whether it be perfectly round and well defined, or affected with little appendages that frequently keep playing about the image of the star, undergoing small alterations while it passes through the field, at other times remaining fixed to it during the whole passage. Such deceptions may be detected by turning or unscrewing the object-glass or speculum a little in its cell, when those appendages will be observed to revolve the same way. Being thus acquainted with the imperfections as well as perfections of the instrument, and going immediately from the adjusting star, which for that reason also should be as near as may be, to the double star which is to be examined, we may hope to be successful. The astronomical Mr. Aubert, who did me the honour to follow this method with γ Leonis, which he did not find to be double when the telescope was adjusted by γ itself, soon perceived the small star after he had adjusted it upon Regulus. The instrument, being one of Mr. Dollond's best 3½ feet achromatics, shewed Mr. Aubert the two stars of γ Leonis in very close conjunction, or rather one partly hid behind the other. On comparing these appearances with my observations of that double star, we must not be surprised to find that I place them at a visible distance from each other: for the Newtonian reflectors, on the plan of my 7-feet one, as I have found, will give a much smaller image of the stars than the 3½ feet achromatic refractors; wherefore the two stars, which in refractors as it were run into each other, will in the reflector remain separate. For this reason also, those who only use such refractors must not be disappointed if they cannot perceive the 26th, 30, 31, 36, 41, 44, 46, 47, 60, 75, 82, 86, and 87th stars of my first class to be double,
All the observations in the following catalogue on the relative magnitude, colour, and position of the stars, are to be understood as having been made with a power of 460, unless they are marked otherwise. This will account for the difference which observers may find in the relative magnitude; for should they use only a power of about 200, many of the small stars that are said to be very unequal and extremely unequal, must appear to them perhaps a degree lower in the scale, and become extremely and excessively unequal: and this will happen, though the quantity of light should be the very same which the reflector has that served me to settle these particulars.

I need not say, that on other accounts, such as a real difference in the light of the telescope, the presence of the moon, twilights, aurorae boreales, or other causes, many of the small stars may be found to be of a different comparative lustre from what is assigned to them in the catalogue. The small star near Rigel, for instance, appears of a beautiful pale red colour, full, round, and well defined, with my 20-feet reflector; the 10-feet instrument shews it also very well in fine evenings; the 7-feet requires more attention, nor is the small star defined, but of a dusky pale red colour. A good 3½ feet achromatic, of a large aperture, when Rigel is on the meridian, may, perhaps, also shew the small star, although I have not been able to see it with a very good instrument of that sort, which shews the small star that accompanies the pole-star; but the evening was not very favourable.

The measures of the distances were all taken with a parallel silk-worm's-thread micrometer, and a power of 227 only. They are not, as in the former catalogue, with the diameters included, but from the center of one star to the center of the other.
other. I have adopted these measures on finding that I could procure threads fine enough to subtend only an angle of about $1''\ 13''$, and that by this means there was no longer any great difficulty of judging when the stars were centrally covered by the threads. However, I do not know whether these measures, with stars at a considerable distance, may not be liable to an additional error of perhaps one second, owing to the remaining uncertainty in judging of their exact central position while the measure is taking.

The positions have all been measured (unless marked otherwise) with a power of 460, adapted to an excellent micrometer, executed by Messrs. Nairne and Blunt, according to the model given in the Philosophical Transactions, vol. LXXI. page 500. fig. iv.; but with a great and necessary improvement of making the wheel $d, d$, of that figure perform its whole revolution; by which means the two silk-worms-threads may be adjusted to a greater degree of exactness; for if they are not placed so as perfectly to bisect the circle, the two threads will not coincide exactly after having performed one semi-revolution, which they must be made to do with the utmost rigour. I found the absolute necessity of this precaution when I came critically to examine the positions of the Georgium Sidus, as they are given in table III. Phil. Trans. vol. LXXI. p. 497. The measures were affected with a small and pretty regular error, which I was at a loss to account for; and the distance of this star being then totally unknown, I looked for the cause of the deviation at first in a diurnal parallax of that heavenly body; but soon found it owing to the inconvenience before-mentioned, of not being able experimentally to adjust the moveable thread to that critical nicety which I have
have now introduced and used in all the angles of the following catalogue.*

Datchet near Windsor, Nov. 1, 1784.

W. HERSCHEL

CATALOGUE OF DOUBLE STARS.

FIRST CLASS.

I. 25. A Orionis. Fl. 32. Sub humero in consequentia.
Jan. 20. Double. Considerably unequal. L. fine w.; S. w.
1782. inclining to pale rose colour. The distance or black division between the two stars with 278 is about \( \frac{1}{4} \) diameter of L.; with 460, near \( \frac{1}{2} \) diameter of L. Position with 278, 52° 10′ 1. preceding.

26. ω Leonis. Fl. 2. Anteriorem pedem dextrum praecedens.
Feb. 8. A very minute double star. Considerably unequal.
1782. Both r. With 227 there is not the least suspicion of its being double; with 460 it appears oblong, and, when perfectly distinct, we see \( \frac{1}{4} \) of the apparent diameter of a small star as it were emerged from behind a larger star; with 932 they are more clear of each other, but not separated; the focus of every power adjusted upon the 3d and 6th Leonis. November 6th, 1782, I

* The divisions on the moveable circular index (a) of this micrometer should be read off by means of a line drawn on a small plate fastened to the side t, and projecting with a proper curvature against the plane of the divisions towards r, so as to be nearly in contact; a coincidence of lines being by far the best method of ascertaining the situation of the index. A nonius of four sub-divisions may also be used, whereby the 60 divisions, already divided into halves upon the index-plate, will be had in eighths, each of which, on the construction of my present one, will be equal to three minutes of a degree of the circle.
I. first suspected a separation; and November 13th, fairly saw a division between them. April 4, 1783, with an improved reflector of 20 feet 3 inches focal length and 12 inches aperture, I saw them evidently divided. Position $20^\circ 54'$ f. following*.

27. FL. 90 Leonis. Infra eductionem caudae.

Feb. 9. Treble. The two nearest—very unequal. L. w.; 1782. S. rw. With 278, $\frac{1}{2}$ diameter of L; with 460, $\frac{1}{2}$ diameter of L. Position with 278, $61^\circ 9'$ f. preceding. The two farthest—very unequal. S. dusky r. Distance from L. $53'' 43'''$. Position $35^\circ 12'$ f. preceding.

28. γ Leonis. FL 41. In collo lucida.

Feb. 11. A beautiful double star. Pretty unequal. L. w.; 1782. S. w. inclining a little to pale red. With 227 and 278 distinctly separated; with 460, $\frac{1}{6}$ diameter of S.; with 625, $\frac{1}{4}$ diameter; with 932, full $\frac{1}{4}$ diameter, or when

* I suspect these stars to recede from each other. It is, however, very possible, that the opening which I observed between them, at the latter end of the year 1782 and beginning of 1783, may be owing to very favourable weather, or to my being better acquainted with the object. Could we increase our power and distinctness at pleasure, we might undoubtedly separate any two stars that are not absolutely in a direct line passing through the eye of the observer, and the centers of both the stars. This will appear when we consider that perhaps 59 thirds out of one second, which the diameter of the star may subtend, are spurious; so that a double star seemingly in contact, or even partly hiding each other in appearance, may still be far enough asunder to admit of a fair and considerable separation by applying an adequate magnifying power. It would have been curious, if a considerable difference in the colours could have led us to discover which of the two stars is before the other! But the far greatest part of their apparent diameters being, as we have observed, spurious, it is probable, that a different coloured light of two stars would join together, where the rays of one extend into those of the other; and so, producing a third colour by the mixture of it, still leave the question undecided.
I. best \( \frac{1}{2} \) diameter of S.; with 1504, \( \frac{3}{4} \) diameter; well-defined, and the difference of colours still visible; with 2176, not quite a diameter of S, pretty well defined, but exceedingly tremulous; with 2589, less than 1 diameter; with 3168, still pretty distinct, and about \( \frac{3}{4} \) diameter of S; with 4294, more than a diameter of S, but attended with the utmost difficulty of managing the motions; with 5489, the interval still somewhat larger, and if the object could be kept in the center of the field, the eye might adapt itself to the focus, and get the better of the violent aberration; but the edges of the glass being of a different focus, the eye is constantly disappointed in its endeavours to define the object; with 6652, I had but a single glimpse of the star quite disfigured; however, I ascribe it chiefly to the foulness of the glass, which, on account of its smallness, is extremely difficult to be cleaned; with a 10-feet reflector, 9 inches aperture, power 626, above \( \frac{1}{2} \) diameter of S. very distinct; with a 20-feet reflector, power 350, too bright an object to be quite distinct, though I see it very well. Position 5° 24' n., following. A third star preceding. Dist. 1'51''23''', pretty accurate for so great a distance. Position 3° 0' n., preceding. A fourth star preceding the third, and somewhat smaller.

29. Parvula juxta Fl. 44am Leonis,

Feb. 17. Double. About 4' following the 44th Leonis, which 1782. being double in the finder, this is the least of the two. Extremely unequal. L. w. S. d. With 227, \( \frac{1}{3} \) diameter of L.; with 460, 2 diameters of L. Position 26° 32' n. following.

Vol. LXXV. H 30. Secunda
I. 30. Secunda ad Cancri. Fl. 57.
March 5. Double. Pretty unequal. Both pr. With 227, 1782, about \( \frac{1}{4} \) diameter; with 278, \( \frac{1}{4} \) diameter; with 460, about \( \frac{1}{2} \) diameter or less. Position 68° 12' n. preceding. A beautiful minute object.

31. Inter Fl. 41st et 39th Lyncis.
March 5. Double. Near \( \frac{1}{4} \) degree n. preceding the 41st Lyncis; towards n Ursae majoris. A little unequal. Both w. With 460, \( \frac{1}{4} \) or at most \( \frac{1}{3} \) diameter, Position 51° 21' f. preceding.

32. Fl. 44a Lyncis australior et praecedens.
April 3. Double. About \( \frac{1}{4} \) degree f. preceding the 44th Lyncis; in a line parallel to θ Ursae majoris and the 39th Lyncis. Very unequal. L. r.; S. bluish r. With 227, 1 diameter of L. or \( \frac{1}{4} \) when best; with 460, \( \frac{1}{4} \) diameter, or when best, near 2 diameters of L. The diameters are so small that the length of the time, and attention of looking, makes a considerable difference in the estimation of the distance. Position 8° 27' f. preceding.

33. ξ Librae. Fl. 51. Primam chelam Scorpii attingens.
May 12. Treble. Without great attention, and a considerable power, it may be mistaken for a double star; but the largest of them consists of two. Very little unequal. Both w. With 460, \( \frac{1}{4} \) or at most \( \frac{1}{3} \) diameter asunder; with 932, full \( \frac{1}{3} \) diameter of L. or near \( \frac{1}{2} \) diameter of S. Position, with 278, 82° 2' n. following. For measures of the third star see the 20th of the second class.

34. Fl. 55. Cassiopeiae. Ptolemæi. In pedis extremitate.
of Double Stars.

I. Treble. The two nearest very unequal. L. w.; S. June 11, colour of pale red blotting paper. With 278, \( \frac{1}{2} \) diameter of S. Position with 227, 20° 30' n. preceding. For measures of the third star see the fourth in the third class.

35. FL. 38. Serpentarii. Dextrum infra pedem. June 11, Double. Very unequal. L. w.; S. d. With 460, 1782, \( \frac{1}{4} \) diameter of L. As the situation is too low for 460, I tried 227, but it only shewed the star wedge-formed. Position 60° 48' n. preceding.

36. \( \zeta \) Herculis. FL. 40. In dextro latere. July 18, A fine double star. Very unequal. L. w.; S. ash-colour. With 460, less than \( \frac{1}{2} \) diameter of S.; with 932, 1 full diameter of S.* Position with 811, 20° 42' n. following.

37. \( \phi \) (FL. 11a.) Herculis borealior et sequens. July 22, Double. About \( \frac{1}{5} \) degree n. following \( \phi \); in a line parallel to the 35th and 42d Herculis; the most south of two very small telescopic stars. Considerably unequal. Both reddish. With 227, they can but just be seen as two stars; with 460, near 1 diameter; with 932, not less than \( \frac{1}{2} \) diameter of L. Position 59° 48' f. following.

The interval between very unequal stars, estimated in diameters, generally gains more by an increase of magnifying power than the apparent distance of those which are nearer of a size. Instances of the former may be found in the first class, the 1st, 7, 29, 35, 37, 39, 53, 59, 63, 64, 72d stars; of the latter, the 16th, 28, 33, 45, 46, 73, 81st stars. However, this only seems to take place when there is a difficulty of seeing the object well with a low power, which being removed by magnifying more, the distance is, as it were, laid open to the view.
I. 38. FL. 18am Persei praecedens ad boream. In capite.

Aug. 20, Double. About \( \frac{1}{2} \) degree n. preceding the 18th; in 1782, a line parallel to \( \sigma \) and \( \tau \) Persei; of two stars that next to the 18th. A little unequal. Both pr. With 278, a most minute and beautiful object; with 460, \( \frac{1}{2} \) diameter of either. Position with 278, \( 9^\circ 42' \) n. preceding.

39. \( \beta \) (FL. 11am) Cassiopeiae praecedens ad austrum.

Aug. 25, Double. About \( \frac{3}{4} \) degree s. preceding \( \beta \); in a line parallel to \( \eta \) and \( \alpha \) Cassiopeiae; the following and largest of two very considerable stars. Very unequal. L. pr.; S. r. With 278, \( \frac{1}{4} \) diameter of S.; with 460, \( \frac{1}{2} \), or when best, \( \frac{3}{4} \) diameter of S. Position \( 50^\circ 42' \) n. preceding.

40. FL. 25am Cassiopeiae praecedens ad boream.

Aug. 28, Double. About \( \frac{1}{2} \) degree n. preceding the 25th; towards \( \alpha \) Cassiopeiae; the first telescopic star in that direction. Very unequal. Both r. With 460, \( \frac{1}{4} \) diameter of S.; difficult to be seen. Position \( 50^\circ 30' \) s. following.

41. FL. 31a Draconis borealior.

Aug. 29, A very minute double star. About \( \frac{1}{4} \) degree n. of the 31st; in a line parallel to \( \gamma \) and \( \xi \) Draconis; the most fourth and preceding of two. Considerably unequal. Both pr. or r. With 227, they appear only as a lengthened or distorted star; with 460, \( \frac{1}{4} \) diameter of S.; or in very fine nights \( \frac{1}{3} \) diameter of S.; with a new speculum and 500, near \( \frac{1}{2} \) diameter when best; with 932, \( \frac{1}{2} \) diameter. Position \( 84^\circ 21' \) n. preceding. Requires every favourable circumstance to be seen double.
I. 42. δ Serpentis. Fl. 13. In primo flexu colli.

Sept. 3, A beautiful double star. Considerably unequal. L. 1782. W.; S. greyish. With 227, \( \frac{1}{3} \) diameter of S.; with 278, not quite \( \frac{1}{2} \) diameter of S.; with 460, near \( \frac{1}{3} \) diameter of S.; with 932, near 1 diameter of S.; with 1504, above 1 diameter of S. Position 42° 48′ f. preceding;

43. Ad Fl. 48am Draconis.

Sept. 3, A very minute double star. The most north of three, forming an arch; or that which is towards o Draconis. Considerably unequal. Both pale pink. In fine nights, with 460, it has the shape of a wedge; with 932, a fine black division just visible; in a very clear dark night a division may be seen with 500, and with 932, it will be about \( \frac{1}{8} \) diameter. Position with 500, 88° 24′ n. preceding.

44. Fl. 4. Aquarii. Supra vestimentum manus finistræ.

Sept. 3, A minute double star. Very unequal. Both pr. 1782. With 460, almost in contact, or at most \( \frac{1}{6} \) diameter of S. Position 81° 30′ n. preceding. A third star of the sixth class in view, n. preceding.

45. μ Aurigæ (Fl. 11am) praecedens ad austrum.

Sept. 5, Double. About 1\( \frac{1}{2} \) degree f. preceding μ, towards 1782. Aurigæ; a pretty considerable star in a minute telescopic constellation. A little unequal. Both pr. or r. With 227, \( \frac{1}{3} \) diameter of S.; with 278, near \( \frac{1}{2} \) diameter of S.; with 460, about \( \frac{1}{2} \) diameter, or near \( \frac{3}{4} \) diameter of S. Position 47° 33′ f. preceding.

46. ν (Fl. 13am) Aquarii sequens ad boream.

Sept. 7, Treble. About 1\( \frac{1}{2} \) degree n. following ν, in a line parallel to β and α Aquarii; the middle of three that are
are in the same direction. The two nearest very unequal. L. rw.; S. pr. With 460, about 1 diameter of L. or more. Position $62^\circ 27'$ n. preceding. The two farthest very unequal. S. pr. Distance with 227, $1' 22'' 42'''$. Position $35^\circ 51'$ n. following.

47. FL. 29$^{am}$ Capricorni praecedens ad boream.

Sept. 27, A minute double star. About $\frac{1}{4}$ degree n. preceding the 29th, in a line parallel to $\gamma$ and $\alpha$ Capricorni. A little unequal. Appears distorted with 227 and 278; nor will 460 shew it separated; with 657, two stars visible; 932 confirms it. Difficult to be seen distinctly on account of its low situation. Position $84^\circ 48'$ n. preceding. 20-feet reflector, 200. Both w.

48. FL. 6$^{am}$ Cephei praecedens. In dextro brachio.

Sept. 27, A very minute and beautiful double star. Near $\frac{1}{4}$ degree preceding the 6th towards $\eta$ Cephei; a pretty considerable telescopic star. A little unequal. Both pr. Almost in contact with 460; with 625, better divided; with 657 still better. Position $14^\circ 9'$ s. preceding.

49. $\lambda$ Cephei (FL. 22$^{am}$) sequens ad boream.

Sept. 27, Double. About $\frac{1}{4}$ degree n. following $\lambda$, in a line from $\zeta$ through $\lambda$ Cephei continued. Extremely unequal. Both dw. Cannot be seen with 278, except with long attention; with 460, $\frac{1}{2}$ diameter of L. Position $85^\circ 48'$ n. following; perhaps a little inaccurate.

50. $\lambda$ Aquarii (FL. 73$^{am}$) praecedens.

Sept. 30, Double. About $2\frac{1}{2}$ degrees preceding, and a little south of $\lambda$ Aquarii; a considerable star. Very unequal. L. w.; S. dw. With 278, less than 1 diameter of L; with 460, $\frac{1}{4}$ diameter of L. Position with 227,
of Double Stars.

1. $41^\circ 12'$ n. preceding. The measure inaccurate on account of the low power, and probably $3^\circ$ or $4^\circ$ too small.

51. Quae sequitur (FL. 32\textsuperscript{am}) Cephei.

Sept. 30. Double. About $2\frac{1}{4}$ degrees n. following $\gamma$, towards 1782. $\gamma$ Cephei; a considerable star. A little unequal. Both pr. A pretty object with 227; with 460, $1\frac{1}{2}$ diameter nearly. Position $3^\circ 36'$ s. preceding.

52. Parvula FL. 25\textsuperscript{am} Orionis adjecta.

Oct. 2. Double. A few minutes n. following the 25th 1782. Orionis, in a line parallel to $\beta$ Eridani and $\epsilon$ Orionis. Very unequal. L. ash w.; S. dw. With 460, 1 diameter of L. Position $52^\circ 48'$ n. preceding.

53. Parvula FL. 30\textsuperscript{am} Orionis adjecta.

Oct. 2. Double. About $10'$ preceding the 30th, in a line parallel to $\lambda$ and $\gamma$ Orionis. Very unequal. L. w.; S. d.; with 460, 1 diameter of L. Position $43^\circ 24'$ n. following.

54. $\tau$ (FL. 20\textsuperscript{am}) Orionis praecedens. In malleolo sinistri cruris.

Oct. 4. Double. Near $\frac{3}{4}$ degree preceding $\tau$, in a line from 1782. $\theta$ through $\tau$ Orionis continued. Very unequal. L. r.; S. dr. With 227, about 1 diameter of L.; with 460, about 2 diameters of L. Position $35^\circ 42'$ n. preceding; a little inaccurate.

55. FL. 8\textsuperscript{am} Tauri praecedens ad boream.

Oct. 9. Double. About $1\frac{1}{2}$ degree n. preceding the 8th 1782. Tauri, or near 2 degrees s. following the 65th Arietis, in a line parallel to the Pleiades and $\epsilon$ Tauri; a small telescopic star not easily found. A little unequal. L. r.; S. d. With 227, less than 1 diameter of S.; with
I. with 460, near two diameters. Position $82^\circ 48'$ f. following.

56. Fl. 54$^{\text{am}}$ Ceti sequens ad austrum.

Oct. 12, Double. About $\frac{1}{3}$ degree f. following the 54th, towards δ Ceti. Nearly equal. Both r. With 227, about 1 diameter; with 460, about 1$\frac{1}{2}$ diameter. Position $87^\circ 39'$ n. following.

57. Fl. 70$^{\text{am}}$ et 67$^{\text{am}}$ Orionis praëns.

Oct. 12, Multiple. In a spot which appears nebulous in the finder, and is about 50' from the 67th, and 45' from the 70th Orionis. More than 12 stars in view with 460; among them is a double star. The largest of the base of an isosceles triangle, n. preceded by four stars in a line. Considerably unequal. With 460, 1 full diameter of L. Position $19^\circ 48'$ f. following.

58. δ Lyrae (Fl. 12$^{\text{am}}$) sequens. Inter educationem cornuum.

Oct. 24, Double. About $\frac{1}{2}$ degree following the 12th, in a line continued from the 11 through the 12th Lyrae; the last of a small telescopic triangle. Extremely unequal. L. r.; S. d. Not easily seen with 227; with 460, near 2 diameters of L. Position $13^\circ 0'$ n. preceding.

59. Ab i (Fl. 18$^{\text{a}}$) Lyrae β versus.

Oct. 24, Double. The most south of two very small telescopic stars, which are the second pair situated in a line from i towards β Lyrae. A little unequal. Both d.; the faintest object that can be imagined. With 460, about 1 diameter. Position $75^\circ 0'$ f. preceding; the measure is liable to some error from the obscurity.

60. E telecopicis γ et λ Lyrae australioribus et sequentibus.

Double
I.

Oct. 24, Double. About \( \frac{1}{2} \) degree S. following \( \lambda \), in a line parallel to \( \alpha \) and \( \gamma \) Lyrae; a very small telescopic star. Extremely unequal. Both dr. With 227, 1 full diameter of L; with 460, near 2 diameters of L. Position 16° 48' N. preceding.

61. Praeiens Fl. 1st Equulei.

Oct. 26, A minute double star. About \( \frac{1}{2} \) degree N. preceding the 1st Equulei, in a line parallel to \( \alpha \) Equulei and \( \gamma \) Aquilae; a large star. Very unequal. Both pr. With 460, \( \frac{1}{2} \) diameter of S. Position 18° 24' N. preceding. A pretty object, but requires fine weather.

62. Sequitur Fl. 2nd Equulei.

Oct. 29, Double. About \( \frac{1}{2} \) degree S. following the 2d Equulei, in a line parallel to \( \delta \) Delphini and \( \delta \) Equulei. Considerably unequal. Both r. With 460, \( \frac{1}{4} \) or \( \frac{1}{2} \) diameter of S. Position 35° 9' S. preceding.

63. \( \gamma \) Equulei (Fl. 5th) australior.

Oct. 29, Double. Full \( \frac{1}{2} \) degree S. of \( \gamma \), in a line from the 5th through the 6th Equulei continued. Equal. Both dr. With 227, about \( \frac{1}{4} \) diameter scarce visible; with 460, about \( \frac{1}{2} \) diameter. Position 5° 57' S. preceding.

64. \( \pi \) Arietis. Fl. 42. In poplite.

Oct. 29, Treble. Excessively unequal. L. w; S. both mere points. With 227, neither of the small stars can be seen, except with considerable and long continued attention, when they also appear; the nearest with this power is \( \frac{1}{4} \) or \( \frac{1}{5} \) diameter of L.; with 460, \( \frac{1}{2} \) or \( \frac{1}{4} \) diameter of L. The third is about 25'' or 26'' distant from L., by exact estimation. Position of both, being all three in a line 19° 19' S. following; as exact as the obscurity will permit.

Vol. LXXV.
I. 65. In Nubecula β Sagittæ adjecta et sequenti.

Nov. 4, Double. \( \frac{1}{3} \) degree n. following β Sagittæ, towards 1782. 29th Vulpeculae; the largest and most south of a cluster of small stars that appear cloudy in the finder. Very unequal. L. rw.; S. pr. With 227, full 1 diameter of L.; with 460, about \( \frac{1}{4} \) or 2 diameters of L. Position 14° 0′ n. preceding. A third star in view, of the 5th or 6th class.

66. β (Fl. 23a) Draconis australior et praecedens.

Nov. 4, Double. About \( \frac{1}{4} \) degree s. preceding β, in a line 1782. from ν continued through β Draconis. Pretty unequal. Both pr. With 460, \( \frac{1}{2} \) or \( \frac{1}{4} \) diameter of L. Position 2° 24′ s. preceding.

67. Nebulam Aurigæ pedem dextrum sequentem, praecedens.

Nov. 4, Double. About 55′ from the 37th Nebula of M. 1782. Messier; the largest and most preceding of two stars. Very unequal. Both pr. With 460, near 2 diameters of L. Position 23° 57′ n. following.

68. Parvula Fl. 10a Orionis quam proximè adjecta.

Nov. 5, Double. The small star not many minutes from the 1782. 10th Orionis. A little unequal. Both whitish. With 460, near 1 diameter. Position 84° 54′ s. following; a little inaccurate on account of the difficulty of seeing the stars well.

69. In Lyncis pectore.

Nov. 13, Double. About 3 degrees s. preceding the 19th 1782. Lyncis, in a line drawn from the 19th Lyncis to τ Aurigæ; the 24th and 19th Lyncis also point to it nearly: in a very clear evening it may just be seen with the naked eye. A little unequal. Both rw. With 227, \( \frac{1}{4} \) dia-
of Double Stars.

I. \( \frac{1}{2} \) diameter; with 460, 1\(\frac{1}{2}\) or near 1\(\frac{1}{2}\) diameter. Position 77° 0' f. following.

70. \( \zeta \) (Fl. 123\(^a\)) Tauri borealior et praecedens.

Nov. 13, A very pretty double star. Near 1 degree n. preceding \( \zeta \) Tauri towards Capella; the corner of a rhomboid made up of \( \zeta \), this, and two more, and opposite to \( \zeta \). Considerably unequal. L. pr.; S. a little deeper r. With 227, almost 1 diameter of L.; with 460, 1\(\frac{1}{2}\) diameter of L. Position 36° 24' f. preceding.

71. Fl. 44\(^{am}\) Ursae majoris praecedens ad austrum.

Nov. 19, Double. Nearly in the intersection of a line from \( \beta \) Ursae majoris to the 39th Lyncis, crossed by one from \( \psi \) to \( \upsilon \) Ursae majoris; the last line should bend a little towards \( \psi \) Ursae majoris. A little unequal. Both whitish. With 460, near 2 diameters of S. Position 2° 6' n. following.

72. Fl. 65. Ursae majoris.

Nov. 20, Double. Excessively unequal. L. pr.; S. a point. Not visible with 227, nor hardly to be suspected unless it has been first seen with a higher power; with 460, 1\(\frac{1}{2}\) diameter of L. or, when long viewed, full 2 diameters of L. Position 53° 45' n. following. A third star in view. Equal to L. Colour rw. Distance 1' 0'' 4''. Position 22° 21' f. following.

73. \( \beta \) (Fl. 6\(^a\)) Arietis borealior et praecedens.

Nov. 22, Double. About 1\(\frac{1}{2}\) degree n. preceding \( \beta \) Arietis, towards \( \beta \) Andromedae; a considerable star. Very unequal. L. r.; S. deeper r. With 227, about 4 diameter of L.; with 460, full 1\(\frac{1}{2}\) or almost 1\(\frac{1}{2}\) diameter of L. when best. Position 77° 24' f. following.
I. 74. FL. 39 Arietis borealior et praecedens.

Dec. 22, Double. About \( \frac{3}{4} \) degree n. preceding 39 Arietis, towards \( \gamma \) Trianguli; a pretty large telescopic star. A little unequal. Both pr. With 227, near 1 diameter of L.; with 460, about \( \frac{1}{2} \) diameter of L. Position: 20° 36' n. preceding.

75. FL. 26 Orionis praecedens ad austrum.

Jan. 9, Double. About \( \frac{1}{4} \) degree f. preceding the 26th, in a line parallel to \( \delta \) and \( \beta \) Orionis; the farthest of two; or \( \frac{3}{4} \) degree f. preceding the 30th in the same direction. Nearly equal. Both w. or rw. With 460, perhaps a diameter. Position 89° 36' n. preceding; but not very accurate.

76. In pectore Lyncis.

Jan. 23, Double. Not easy to be found. A line from the 19th Lyncis to \( \upsilon \) Geminorum crossed by one from \( \theta \) Ursae majoris to \( \epsilon \) Aurigae, points out a star but just visible in a fine evening; it is perhaps about three degrees from the 19th Lyncis; when that star is found, we have the double star about 1 degree n. following the same, in a line parallel to \( \tau \) Geminorum and the 19th Lyncis. Considerably unequal. Both ash w. With 460, \( \frac{1}{4} \) diameter of S. Position 0° 0' preceding. A third large star in view. Distance 1' 7" 46"''. Position: 3° 42' f. preceding.

77. \( \alpha \) (FL. 74) Crateris borealior.

Jan. 31, Double. Near 2\( \frac{1}{4} \) degrees north of \( \alpha \) Crateris; a small telescopic star, about \( \frac{1}{4} \) degree following the most north of two large ones. Pretty unequal. Both whitish. With 227, less than half diameter of S.; with
I. with 460, near 1 diameter; with 625, a little more than 1 diameter. Position $82^\circ 24'$ n. following.

78. Fl. 11 Librae borealior.

Jan. 31, Double. Near $2\frac{1}{2}$ degrees north of the 11th Librae, 1783. in a line parallel to $\mu$ Virginis and the 109th of the same constellation. Equal. Both inclining to r. With 460, full 1 diameter. Position $58^\circ 24'$ n. preceding, or f. following.

79. Fl. 46 Herculis. In dextro latere.

Feb. 5, Double. Extremely or almost excessively unequal. 1783. L. w.; S. d. With 227, it is hardly visible; with 460, near 1 diameter of L. Position $66^\circ 36'$ f. following.

80. Fl. 81 Virginis.

Feb. 7, Double. Equal. Both pr. With 227, near $\frac{1}{2}$ diameter; with 460, $\frac{3}{4}$ diameter. Position $41^\circ 12'$ n. following or f. preceding.

81. $\pi$ Serpentis (Fl. 44am) praecedens ad austrum.

Mar. 7, Double. About 1$\frac{1}{2}$ degree f. preceding $\pi$, towards $\alpha$; the most north of two. A little unequal. Both r. With 460, 1$\frac{1}{2}$ diameter of L. Position $49^\circ 48'$ f. preceding. A third large star in view; paler than the other two. Distance from the two taken as one star: $56'' 28'''$. Position, with L. of the two, $31^\circ 48'$ f. preceding.

82. Fl. 49 Serpentis.

Mar. 7, Double. The most north and following of two stars. A little unequal. Both pr. With 227, $\frac{1}{4}$ or $\frac{1}{2}$ diameter, and a very minute and beautiful object; with 460, $\frac{3}{4}$ diameter. Position $21^\circ 33'$ n. preceding.
I. 83. λ Ophiuchi. Fl. 10. In ancone sinistri brachii.

Mar. 9, A very beautiful and close double star. L. w.; S. 1783. blue; both fine colours. Considerably or almost very unequal. With 460, \( \frac{1}{4} \) or \( \frac{1}{3} \) diameter of S.; with 932, full \( \frac{1}{3} \) diameter of S. Position 14° 30' n. following.

84. Fl. 50 Aurigae australior.

Mar. 18, Double. Near 1 degree s. of the 50th Aurigae, in 1783. a line parallel to β and θ. Very unequal. L. r.; S. dr. With 227, about \( \frac{1}{4} \) diameter of L.; with 460, almost \( \frac{1}{4} \) diameter of L. Position 14° 0' n. following.

85. Fl. 36am Lyncis sequens ad austrum.

Mar. 24, Double. Near \( \frac{1}{2} \) degree s. following the 36th Lyn-1783. cis, in a line parallel to the 31st Lyncis and n Ursae majoris; of two the nearest to the 31st Lyncis. Considerably unequal. Both w. With 227, 1 diameter of L.; or when long kept in view, \( \frac{1}{4} \) diameter of L.; with 460, and after long looking, 2 diameters of L; otherwise not near so much. Position 88° 57' n. following.

86. Fl. 105a Herculis borealior.

Mar. 27, Double. One full degree n. of the 105th Herculis, 1783. in a line from the 72d Serpentarii continued through the 105th Herculis; a small telescopic star. Considerably unequal. Both dr. With 460, a little more than 1 diameter of L. Position 79° 24' n. preceding.

87. q Ophiuchi. Fl. 73.

April 27, A very minute double star. Considerably unequal. L. r. 1783. S. r. With 227, not to be suspected unless known to be double, but may be seen wedge-formed, and with
of Double Stars.

I. long attention I have also perceived a most minute division; with 460, about \( \frac{1}{4} \) or \( \frac{1}{3} \) diameter of S. Position \( 2^\circ 48' \) f. preceding.

88. \( \tau \) Ophiuchi. Fl. 69. In dextra manu sequens.

April 28, 'The closest of all my double stars; can only be suspected with 460; but 932 confirms it to be a double star. Pretty unequal. Both pr. or wr. It is wedge-formed with 460; with 932, one-half of the small star, if not three-quarters seem to be behind the large star. Position of the wedge \( 61^\circ 36' \) n. preceding. \( \nu \) Ophiuchi, just by, is perfectly free from this wedge-formed appearance.

89. Illas ad Fl. 56\(^{am}\) Andromedæ praecedens ad boream.

July 28, Double. About \( \frac{2}{3} \) degree preceding, and a little north of the two stars that are about the place of the 56th Andromedæ, in a line towards \( \mu \); a considerable star; and of two in a line parallel to \( \beta \) and \( \gamma \) Trianguli that which is nearest to the 56th Andromedæ. Pretty unequal. L. drw.; S. dpr. With 227, near 1 diameter of L.; with 460, about \( 1\frac{1}{2} \) diameter of L. Position \( 75^\circ 30' \) f. following.

90. \( \beta \) Aquarii (Fl. 22\(^{am}\)) praecedens ad austrum.

July 31, Double. About \( 4\frac{1}{2} \) degrees from \( \beta \) towards \( \mu \) Aquarii. A little unequal. Both dw. or pr. With 460, \( 1\frac{1}{2} \) diameter or near 2. Position \( 77^\circ 36' \) f. following.

91. \( \gamma \) Aquilæ (Fl. 50\(^{am}\)) praecedens ad boream.

Aug. 7, Double. About \( \frac{1}{3} \) degree n. preceding \( \gamma \), in a line parallel to \( \gamma \) and \( \zeta \) Aquilæ; of two that nearest to \( \gamma \). Very unequal. L. dpr.; S. d. With 227, hardly visible, and like a star not in focus; with 460, appears nebulous.
I. nebulous on one side, but is a double star; with 932, about 1\(\frac{1}{2}\) diameter of L. Position 8° 18' n. preceding.

92. π Aquilæ. FL. 52. Duarum in sinistro humero sequens. Aug. 27, A minute pretty double star. A little unequal.

1783. Both pr. With 460, \(\frac{1}{2}\) diameter of L. or near \(\frac{3}{4}\) diameter of S. Position 34° 24' f. following.

93. FL. 62\(^{am}\) Aquilæ præcedens ad boream.

Sept. 12, A minute double star. About \(\frac{3}{4}\) degree n. preceding

1783. the 62d, in a line parallel to θ and ζ Aquilæ; a pretty considerable star. Very unequal. Both inclining to pr. With 278, almost in contact; with 460, near \(\frac{3}{4}\) diameter of S.; when in the meridian, and the air fine, near 1 diameter of L. Position 19° 9' n. preceding.

94. δ Cygni. FL. 18. In ancone alæ dextræ.

Sept. 20, Double. Very unequal. L. fine w.; S. ash colour

1783. inclining to r. With 278, about \(\frac{1}{2}\) diameter of L.; with 460, \(\frac{3}{4}\) diameter of L.; with 932, full 1\(\frac{1}{2}\) diameter of L. in hazy weather, which has taken off the rays of L. and thereby increased the interval. Position 18° 21' n. following; perhaps a little inaccurate.

95. FL. 33\(^{am}\) Cygni sequens ad austrum.

Sept. 22, Double. Full 1\(\frac{1}{2}\) degree f. following the 33d,

1783. towards ξ Cygni; a pretty considerable star. Very unequal. L. w.; S. inclining to r. With 460, at first about \(\frac{3}{4}\) diameter of L.; but, after looking a considerable time, and in a fine air, near 1\(\frac{1}{2}\) diameter. Position 72° 15' n. preceding.

96. η (FL. 21\(^{am}\)) Cygni sequens ad austrum.

Sept. 23, Treble. Full 1\(\frac{1}{2}\) degree n. following η, in a line

1783. parallel to β and λ Cygni. The two nearest considerably unequal.
unequal. Both pr. With 460, \( \frac{1}{2} \) diameter of S. or \( \frac{3}{4} \) diameter of L. Position 89° 18' f. following. The two farthest considerably unequal; the colour r. Dist. . . . . Position 56° 3' n. preceding.

97. FL. 51st Cygni sequens.

Sept. 24, A minute double star. About 2\( \frac{1}{2} \) degrees following the 51st, in a line parallel to \( \delta \) and \( \alpha \) Cygni; the largest and most south of an obtuse-angled triangle; a very considerable star. Pretty unequal. Both rw.; but S. a little darker r. With 278, \( \frac{1}{2} \) diameter of S. and beautiful; with 460, \( \frac{3}{4} \) diameter of S. Position 46° 24' n. following.

SECOND CLASS OF DOUBLE STARS.

II. 39. Procyonem juxta.

Feb. 2, Double. About 2 degrees f. following Procyon, in a line from \( \lambda \) Geminorum continued through Procyon. Excessively unequal. L. pr.; S. not visible with 278; with 460, more than 3 diameters of L. Position, by the assistance of a wall * and micrometer 54° 28' f. following.

* When the small star is so faint as not to bear the least illumination of the wires, its position may still be measured by the assistance of some wall or other object; for an eye which has been some time in the dark, can see a wall in a star-light evening sufficiently well to note the projection of the stars upon it, in the manner
II. 40. * Secunda ad φ Cancri. Fl. 23.
Feb. 2, Double. A little unequal. Both rw. With 227, 1782, near 2 diameters; with 460, 2½ diameters of L. Position 56° 42′ n. following.

41. * Prima ad υ Cancri. Fl. 24.
Feb. 2, Double. Considerably unequal. Both pr. With 1782, 227, 1½ diameter of L.; with 460, 4 diameters of L. Position 32° 9′ n. following.

42. E telescopicis k Virginis precedentibus †.
Feb. 6, Double. About ¼ degree f. preceding k Virginis, 1782, in a line parallel to ζ and θ; the most south of three forming an arch. Extremely unequal. L. w.; S. hardly visible with 227 (but with a ten-feet reflector S. b.); with 460, above 2 diameters of L. Position 52° 24′ f. following.

43. Fl. 43am Leonis praecedens ad austrum. In dextro genu.
Feb. 17, Double. Near ¾ degree f. preceding the 43d, in a line parallel to α and the 14th Leonis. Very unequal. L. w.; S. d. With 227, near 2½ diameters of L. when best. Position 85° 2′ n. following.

44. o Virginis. Fl. 84. Versus finem alae dextræ.
Feb. 17, Double. Extremely unequal. L. w. inclining to r.; 1782. S. d. Requires attention to be seen with 227; with 460, 2½ diameters of L. Position, with 278, 29° 5′ f. preceding.

which has been described with the lamp-micrometer, Phil. Trans. vol. LXXII. p. 169 and 170. Then, introducing some light, and adapting the fixed wire to the observed direction of the stars on the wall, the moveable wire may be set to the parallel of the large star, which will give the angle of position pretty accurately.

† See note to IV. 51.
II. 45. FL. 54 Virginis.
April 3, Double. A little unequal. Both w. With 227, 1782. 1\(\frac{1}{2}\) or near 1\(\frac{3}{4}\) diameter. Position 57° 0' n. following.

46. FL. 42\(^{3m}\) Comæ Berenices sequens ad austrum.
April 15, Double. About 1\(\frac{3}{4}\) degree from the 42d Comæ towards v Bootis; the most south of a telescopic equilateral triangle. Excessively unequal. L. pr.; S. d. With 278, 2\(\frac{1}{2}\) diameters of L.; not so well to be seen with higher powers. Position 6° 42' f. following. A third star preceding, above 1'.

47. FL. 2 Comæ Berenices.
April 18, Double. Considerably unequal. L. rw.; S. pr. 1782. With 278, 2 diameters of L.; with 460, above 2 diameters of L. Position 27° 42' f. preceding.

48. Prope FL. 16\(^{3m}\) Aurigæ.
Aug. 28, A minute double star. Less than \(\frac{1}{4}\) degree f. preceding the 16th, in a line parallel to the 10 and 8 Aurigæ; the preceding star of a small triangle of which the 16th is the largest and following. A little unequal. Both pr. With 227, 1\(\frac{1}{2}\) or, when best, 1\(\frac{3}{4}\) diameter of L. Position 15° 48' n. following.

49. o (FL. 110\(^{3}\)) Piscium borealior. In lino boreo.
Sept. 3, Double. About \(\frac{1}{2}\) degree n. of, and a little preceding 110th, towards \(n\) Piscium. A little unequal. Both wr. With 460, about 3 diameters of L. Position 59° 6' n. preceding. A third star in view, about 1\(\frac{3}{4}\) min.

50. FL. 38. Piscium. In austrino lino.
Sept. 4, Double. Pretty unequal. Both pr. With 227, 1782. full 2 diameters of L.; with 460, about 4 diameters of L. Position 25° 3' f. preceding.
II. 51. ρ Capricorni. Fl. II. Trium in rostro sequens.
Sept. 5, Double. Very unequal. Both rw. With 460, 1½
1782. diameter of L. Position 84° 0′ s. following. A third
star in view.

52. ο (Fl. 40am) Persei præcedens ad boream.
Sept. 7, Double. Almost ½ degree preceding the 40th, in a
1782. line parallel to ζ and the 38th Persei. Equal. Both w.
With 227, nearly 2 diameters. Position 8° 24′ n. pre-
ceding.

53. Fl. 12am Camelopardali præcedens.
Sept. 7, Double. Less than ¼ degree preceding the 11th and
1782. 12th, in a line from the 1st Lyncis continued through
the 12th Camelopardali. Extremely unequal. Both
dr. With 227, it appears like a star with a tail; but
932 shews it plainly to be only a double star; with
227, not much above 1 diameter of L.; with 932,
about 3½ diameter of L. Position 18° 33′ s. following;
a little inaccurate.

54. Quæ præcedit ε (Fl. 74am, oculum boreum) Tauri.
Sept. 7, Double. Near ½ degree s. preceding ε, in a line
1782. parallel to α and γ Tauri; a small star. Extremely
unequal. L. rw.; S. d. With 460, above 3 diameters
of L. Position 68° 42′ s. preceding.

55. Fl. 4a Ceti australior et sequens.
Sept. 9, Double. About 1 degree s. following the 4th and
1782. 5th in a line parallel to η and τ Ceti; in the shorter leg
of a rectangular triangle. Very unequal. L. r.; S.
d. With 278, rather more than 2 diameters. Posi-
tion 21° 42′ n. preceding.

56. β (Fl. 6am) Arietis præcedens ad boream.

Double
II. Double. Almost 1 degree n. preceding β Arietis, Sept. 10, towards ξ Andromedæ; a small star. A little unequal.

1782. Both reddish. With 227, full 2 diameters of L. Position 23° 12' n. preceding. A third star 2' or 3' preceding, in the same direction with the two stars of the double star.

57. Ad Fl. 72am Aquarii.

Sept. 27, Treble. About 2½ degrees following ω, in a line parallel to α and η Aquarii. The nearest a little unequal. Both r. With 460, 2½ diameters of L. Position 25° 51' f. preceding. The two farthest a little unequal. Of the 5th class. About 50° or 55° f. following.

58. Fl. 56a Ceti australior et sequens.

Sept. 27, Double. About ¾ degree f. following the 56th, in a line parallel to η and τ Ceti. Considerably unequal. Both dw. With 278, 1½ diameter of L. Position 25° 12' n. preceding; too low for accuracy.

59. ρ (Fl. 46am) Aquarii sequens ad austrum.

Sept. 30, Double. About 2 degrees f. following ρ, in a line parallel to β and δ Aquarii; there is a very considerable star between this and ρ, not much out of the line. Pretty unequal. Both dr. With 227, 2½ or 2¾ diameter of L. Position 61° 12' n. preceding.

60. ξ (Fl. 5am) Canis majoris sequens ad boream.

Sept. 30, Double. About ½ degree n. following the 2d ad ξ, in a line from the 4th continued through the 5th Canis majoris nearly. Very unequal. L. rw.; f. d. With 227, 1¼ diameter. Position 67° 36' n. preceding.

61. ω (Fl. 47am) Orionis sequens ad austrum.

Oct. 2, Treble. About 1½ degree f. following ω in a line parallel to φ and α Orionis; the smallest and most south of three forming an arch. The two nearest extremely unequal.
unequal. L. dw.; S. a mere point. With 227, 1\(\frac{1}{2}\) or 
\(1\frac{3}{4}\) diameter of L. Position 4° 54' n. following; too 
obscure for accuracy. The two farthest extremely une-
qual. S. a mere point. Of the fourth clasf. Po-
sition about 50° f. following.

62. Fl. 3\(^{a}\) Pegasi adjecta.

Oct. 4, Double. In a line with, and north of, the two stars 
that are about the place of the third Pegasi. A little 
unequal. Both dusky r. With 227, about 3 dia-
meters of S. Position 88° 24' n. preceding; perhaps a 
little inaccurate.

63. Fl. 2\(^{am}\) et 4\(^{am}\) Navis praecedens.

Oct. 12, Multiple. Near 2 degrees preceding the 2d and 4th 
Navis; the middle one of three. One of the multiple 
is double. Nearly equal. Both w. or ash colour. 
With 227, about 2\(\frac{1}{2}\) diameter, and not less than 20 
stars more in view; with 460, about 3 diameters. Po-
sition 30° 12' n. preceding.

64. g (Fl. 81\(^{am}\)) Geminorum ad austrum sequitur.

Oct. 13, Double. About \(\frac{1}{2}\) degree f. following g, in a line from 
continued through g Geminorum nearly; the nearest 
and largest of two. Very unequal. L. r.; S. bluish 
r. With 227, above 3 diameters of L. Position 
4° 9' n. preceding.

65. Pollucem sequens ad boream.

Oct. 13, Double. Full \(\frac{1}{4}\) degree n. following \(\beta\), in a line from 
continued through \(\beta\) Geminorum; the star next to 
the middle one of three, nearly in a line. Excessively 
unequal. L. rw.; S. d. With 227, above 2\(\frac{1}{2}\) or near 
3 diameters of L. and 5 other stars in view; with 460, 
above 3 diameters of L. Position 89° 12' n. following.
II. 66. Juxta γ Delphini.

Oct. 19, Double. Full ½ degree s. preceding γ, towards δ
Delphini. Considerably unequal. L. pr.; S. r. With
227, 1½ diameter of L. Position 78° 42' n. preceding.

67. β (Fl. 10am) Lyrae praecedens ad boream.

Oct. 19, Double. The 4th telescopic star about 1½ degree n.
preceding β, in a line parallel to γ and α Lyrae. Ex-
tremely unequal. L. r.; S. dr. With 227, 1½ or
almost 1½ diameter of L. With 460, above 2 diame-
ters of L. Position 68° 6' f. following.

68. Proximè ρ Lyrae.

Oct. 24, Treble. About 2½ minutes f. following ρ Lyrae.
The two nearest, a little unequal. Both dr. With
460, 3 full diameters. Position 8° 24' n. following.
The farthest as large as L. of the two nearest at least.
Colour dr. Position with L. 25° 57' f. preceding.
Distance of ρ Lyrae, which is in view, from the two
nearest 2' 17'' 30''. Position 65° 12', ρ being n. pre-
ceding, or the double star f. following.

69. Fl. 4am Cygni sequens ad boream.

Oct. 24, Double. Near ½ degree n. following the 4th Cygni,
in a line from γ Lyrae continued through the 4th
Cygni. A little unequal. Both w. With 227, about
2 diameters of L. or 2½ when best. Position 29° 12'
n. following.

70. τav 8 telescopicarum z (Fl. 15.) Sagittae sequentium
ultima.

Nov. 6, Double. About 1½ degree f. following z Sagittae, in
a line parallel to γ Sagittae and γ Delphini. Extremely
unequal. Both r.; S. deeper r. With 227, 1½ dia-
meter
Mr. Herschel's Catalogue

II. meter of L.; with 460, above 2 diameters of L. Position 72° 57' n. following.

71. Fl. 58a Aurigae australior.

Nov. 6, Multiple. About ¼ degree f. of the 58th Aurigae, in 1782. a line parallel to β and θ. A cluster of stars containing a double star of the second, and one of the third class. That of the second very unequal. Both r. With 460, about 2½ diameter of L. Position 44° 36' n. following; that of the third equal. Both r. With 227, above 20 stars in view. Distance 17'' 41''. The two double stars are in the following side of a small telescopic trapezium.

72. Fl. 13a Lyncis australior.

Nov. 13, A pretty double star. About 1¼ degree f. of the 13th 1782. Lyncis, towards θ Geminorum; a considerable star. Nearly equal. Both pr. With 227, full 2½ diameters; with 460, almost 4 diameters. Position 11° 0' f. preceding.

73. Fl. 21a Ursae majoris.

Nov. 17, Double. Very unequal. Both rw. With 227, 2¼ 1782. diameter of L.; with 460, above 3. Position 36° 45' n. preceding.

74. ν (Fl. 4a) Crateris borealior.

Nov. 20, Treble. Near 1 degree n. preceding ν Crateris, 1782. towards α Leonis. The two nearest equal. Both dw. With 227, 2½ or 3 diameters. Position 71° 33' n. following. The farthest larger than either of the two other stars. Of the sixth class. Position about 68 or 69° f. preceding the double star.
II. 75. FL. 118 Tauri.

Dec. 7. Double. A little unequal. L. w.; S. w. inclining to r. With 278, 2½ diameter of L.; with the same power by the micrometer 4″ 41‴; more exactly with 625, 5″ 2‴. Position 77° 15′. I could just see it with an 18-inch achromatic, made by Mr. Nairne; it was as close as possible, and a pretty object.

76. τ (FL. 63) Arietis australior et praecedens.

Dec. 23. Double. About 1 degree f. preceding τ Arietis, towards μ Ceti; the most south of two small telescopic stars. Nearly equal. Both w. With 227, above 3 diameters; by the micrometer 5″ 47‴. Position 15° 24′ f. preceding.

77. * FL. 17 Hydræ.

Dec. 28. Double. The largest of two. A little unequal. Both w. With 227, 2½ diameter of L.; with 460, 1¾ diameter. Position 90° 0′ north.

78. χ (FL. 63am) Leonis sequens ad austrum.

Jan. 1. Double. About ½ degree f. following χ, towards τ Leonis; the smallest of two. Very or extremely unequal. L. r.; S. d. With 227, 3 full diameters of L. Position 75° 21′ f. following.

79. FL. 39 Bootis.

Jan. 8. A pretty double star. A little unequal. Both pr. With 227, near 1½ diameter of L.; with 460, near 2 diameters of L. Position 38° 21′ n. following.

80. d (FL. 40e) Eridani adjecta.

Jan. 31. Double. About 1½ min. f. following d Eridani. Very unequal. Both dr. With 227, hardly visible; with 460, very obscure. Position 56° 42′ n. preceding.
II. Distance of L. from d Eridani, with 227, 1' 21'' 47''.
Position of L. 17° 53' s. following d Eridani.

81. Fl. 49am Eridani sequens.
Jan. 31, Double. Near 1 degree following the 49th Eridani,
1783. towards δ Orionis. Very unequal. Both dw. With
227, full 1 diameter of L.; with 278, 1½ or 1¼ diameter of L.;
with 460, 2½ or 3 diameters of L. Position 51° 36' n. preceding.

82. Fl. 31am Bootis sequens ad austrum.
Feb. 3, Double. Near 1 degree s. following the 31st, in a
1783. line from ν continued through the 31st Bootis; the most
south of two. A little unequal. L.w.; S. dw. With
227, about 1¼ diameter of L.; with 460, about 3 diameters of L. Position 1° 0' s. following. A third star
in view, 20° or 30° n. preceding.

83. Fl. 22a Andromedæ borealior.
Feb. 26, Double. Within ½ degree north of the 22d, in a
1783. line parallel to the 19th and 16th Andromedæ; the fol-
lowing and smallest of two. Considerably unequal. L.w.;
S. d. With 227, 1¼ or 1½ diameter of L.; with 460,
more than 2 diameters of L. Position 5° 48' n. following.

84. Fl. 65 Piscium.
Feb. 27, Double. Nearly equal. Both pr. With 227, near
1783. 1½ diameter of L.; with 460, full 2 diameters. Posi-
tion 30° 57' n. preceding.

85. b (Fl. 36a) Serpentis borealior et sequens.
Mar. 4, Double. About 1½ degree n. following b, nearly in
1783. a line from the 32d continued through the 36th Ser-
pentis. Extremely unequal. L. w.; S. dw. With
227, 1 full diameter of L.; S. hardly to be seen; with
460, full 2 diameters of L. Position 46° 9' n. preceding.
II. 86. Fl. 49\textsuperscript{am} Serpentis praecedens ad austrum.

Mar. 7, Double. About 1\(\frac{1}{2}\) degree f. preceding the 49th, in 1783. a line with the 49th and another between this and the 49th Serpentis, each nearly at \(\frac{3}{4}\) degree distance. Very unequal. L. dw.; S. d. With 227, 2 diameters, or 2\(\frac{1}{4}\) when best. Position 53° 9' f. following.

87. Fl. 29\textsuperscript{a} et 30\textsuperscript{a} Monocerotis australior.

Mar. 8, Multiple. It makes nearly an equilateral triangle with the 29th and 30th Monocerotis towards the south, 1783. Among many, the fourth from the south end of an irregular long row is double. A little unequal. Both pr. With 227, 1 diameter of L. and 16 more in view. Position 86° 12' f. following.

88. \(w\) (Fl. 51\textsuperscript{am}) Serpentis praecedens ad austrum.

Mar. 8, Double. About \(\frac{1}{2}\) degree f. preceding the 51st, 1783. towards the 13th Serpentis. Very or extremely unequal. Both r. With 227, 2\(\frac{1}{4}\) diameter of L. when best; with 460, near 3 diameters of L. Position 44° 45' n. preceding.

89. Ad Genam Monocerotis.

Mar. 26, Double. About 1 degree n. preceding the 12th Monocerotis, in a line parallel to \(\alpha\) and \(\lambda\) Orionis; the smallest and most north of two. Considerably unequal. L. r.; S. bluish r. With 227, near 4 diameters of L. when best. Position 50° 51' n. following.

90. Fl. 100\textsuperscript{am} Herculis praecedens ad boream.

Mar. 27, Double. About 1\(\frac{1}{4}\) degree n. preceding the 100th, 1783. towards \(\mu\) Herculis; a very small telescopic star; the most towards \(\mu\) and smallest of three forming an arch. Considerably unequal. Both dw. With 227, about 2 diameters of L. Position 75° 9' f. following.
II. 91. \( \alpha \) (Fl. 15\(^a\)) Sagittæ australior.

Apr. 5, Treble. About twice as far south of \( \alpha \) Sagittæ, as \( \alpha \) 1783, and the star near it are from each other; a small star. The two nearest very unequal. L. pr.; S. r. With 227, \( \frac{1}{2} \) diameter of L. Position 74° 54' f. preceding. The third with L. extremely unequal. S. d. With 227, about 3 diameters of L. or more. Position about 40° or 50° n. preceding. With more light this would be a fine object.

92. In Camelopardali clune.

Apr. 30, Double. About four times the distance of the 10th 1783, and 12th Camelopardali, north of the 10th, and almost in the same direction with the 10th and 12th, is a star of between the 5th and 6th magnitude not marked in Flamsteed; naming that star A, we have the following direction. About \( \frac{1}{2} \) degree preceding A Camelopardali, in a line from the 2d Lyncis continued through A; the second from A. Very unequal. L. w.; S. d. With 227, \( \frac{1}{2} \) or 2 diameters of L. Position 22° 42' f. following. Very inaccurate.

93. \( \epsilon \) (Fl. 13\(^a\)) Aquilæ australior.

May 25, Double. Near \( \frac{1}{4} \) degree south of, and a little following \( \epsilon \), towards \( \lambda \) Aquilæ, a very small star. Very unequal. L. dw.; S. dr. With 460, above 2 diameters of L. Position 16° 0' n. preceding.

94. \( \iota \) (Fl. 17\(^a\)) Andromedæ praecedens ad boream.

Aug. 19, Double. About \( \frac{1}{3} \) degree n. preceding \( \iota \) Andromeda 1783, in a line parallel to \( \alpha \) and \( \beta \) Cassiopeiæ; in the side of a trapezium of four small stars. Pretty unequal. Both r. With 460, \( \frac{2}{3} \) diameters of L. Position 34° 24' n. preceding.
II. 95. η (Fl. 55a) Aquilæ australior.

Sept. 12; Double. About ½ degree south of η, in a line from 1783. α continued through η Aquilæ; a small star. A little unequal. Both dusky ash-coloured. With 460, near 3 diameters of L.; with 278, near 2 diameters of L. Position 29° 3' n. preceding.

96. θ (Fl. 65b) Aquilæ borealior et sequens.

Sept. 12; Double. About ¼ degree n. following θ Aquilæ, 1783. towards ε Delphini; more accurate towards 29 Vulpeculae; a very considerable star. Nearly equal. Both rw. With 278, about ¼ diameter of L.; with 460, full 2 diameters. Position 56° 12' f. preceding.

97. ζ (Fl. 64am) Cygni præcedens.

Sept. 15; Treble. About 1 degree preceding ζ, towards the 1783. 41st Cygni; a large star. The two nearest extremely unequal. L. w.; S. pr. With 460, 2½ diameters of L. Position 45° 15' n. preceding. The third with L. extremely unequal. Of the 5th or 6th class; about 50° f. preceding.

98. Fl. 49 Cygni.

Sept. 15; Double. Very unequal. L. r.; S. bluish r. With 1783. 278, 1½ diameter of L.; with 460, 2½ diameters of L. Position 31° 48' n. following.

99. β (Fl. 6am) Cygni sequens ad boream.

Sept. 15; Double. Near ½ degree n. following β, towards ξ 1783. Cygni. Very unequal. Both dw. With 278, 1½ diameter of L.; with 460, about 2 diameters of L. Position 87° 48' n. following.

100. Fl. 51a Cygni borealior et sequens.

Sept. 24; Double. Near two degrees n. following the 51st 1783. Cygni, in a line parallel to o Cygni and α Cephei; a pretty
II. pretty considerable star. Very unequal. L. w.; S. inclining to blue. With 278, extremely unequal, and 1\(\frac{1}{2}\) diameters of L. when best; requires attention to be seen well with this power; with 460, full 2 diameters of L. or 2\(\frac{1}{4}\) when best, otherwise much less. Position 15° 51' n. following.

101. Fl. 57\(^{\text{am}}\) :: Camelopardali praecedens ad boream.
Sept. 26, Double. About 2 degrees n. preceding the 57 ::, towards the 42d Camelopardali; a considerable star near three smaller, forming an arch. About 1 degree from the double star V. 135. Considerably unequal. Both pr. With 278, 1\(\frac{3}{4}\) diameter of L.; with 460, 2\(\frac{1}{2}\) diameters of L. Position 67° 15' n. preceding.

102. e (Fl. 29\(^{\text{a}}\)) Orionis australior et praecedens.
Sept. 27, Double. About \(\frac{1}{2}\) degree s. preceding e, in a line parallel to \(p\) and \(b\) Orionis; the largest of several. Very unequal. L. pr.; S. inclining to garnet. With 278, near 2 diameters of L. With 460, 2\(\frac{1}{2}\) diameters of L. Position 52° 24' f. following.

THIRD CLASS OF DOUBLE STARS.

III. 47. e Pollucis: Fl. 38 Geminorum. In calce.
Dec. 27, Double. Extremely unequal. L. rw.; S. r. Distance, with 460, 7'' 48''. Position 89° 54' f. following. Two more in view, the nearest of them perhaps 40''; they form a rectangle nearly.
III. 48. \( r \) (Fl. 61\(^{am}\)) Geminorum praecedens ad boream.

Dec. 27, Double. About \( \frac{1}{2} \) degree n. preceding \( r \), in a line parallel to \( z \) and the 60th Geminorum; near two degrees from \( \delta \). A little unequal. Both pr. Distance 6" 15"''. Position 43° 54' n. following.

49. \( \delta \) (Fl. 4\(^{am}\)) Hydrae praecedens ad boream.

Jan. 20, Double. About \( \frac{1}{4} \) degree n. preceding \( \delta \), in a line from \( \eta \) continued through \( \delta \) Hydrae. Pretty unequal. L. r.; S. garnet. Distance 12" 30"''. Position 62° 48' n. following.

50. \( \theta \) Virginis. Fl. 51. De quatuor ultima et sequens.

Feb. 6, Treble. The two nearest extremely unequal. L. w.; S. d. Distance 7" 8"''; but inaccurate on account of the obscurity of S. Position 69° 18' n. preceding. For measures of the two farthest see VI. 43.

51. Fl. 88 Leonis. In dextro clune.

Feb. 9, Double. Extremely unequal. L. rw.; S. r. Distance 14" 38"''; a little inaccurate. Position 47° 33' n. preceding.

52. Fl. 10\(^{am}\) Orionis sequens.

Feb. 17, Double. Above \( \frac{1}{4} \) deg. n. following the 10th, towards \( \omega \) Orionis. Considerably unequal. Both pr. Distance with 278, 13" 40"''. Position 37° 3' n. following.

53. \( \gamma \) Virginis borealior et sequens.

Feb. 17, Double. Near 2\( \frac{1}{2} \) degrees n. following \( \gamma \), in a line parallel to \( \varepsilon \) and \( \alpha \) Virginis; a considerable star; a line from \( \gamma \) to this passes between two of nearly the same magnitude with this star. A little unequal. Both d. Distance 12" 58"''. Position 79° 0' n. preceding.
II. 54. Secunda ad σ Ursae majoris. Fl. 13. In fronte.
June 2, Double. Extremely unequal. L. w.; S. r. Distance 7'' 56''. Position 13° 0' n. preceding.

55. υ (Fl. 18am) Coronae borealis sequens ad boream.
June 14, Double. Considerably unequal. L. dr.; S. d. Distance with 227, about 3 or 4 diameters of L. being too obscure for the micrometer. Position 53° 48' f. preceding. Distance of the largest of the two from υ Coronae 1' 18'' 8''. Position of the same with υ, 64° 24' n. following.

56. S (Fl. 72a) Serpentarii borealior.
June 16, Double. About ½ degrees n. of the 72d Serpentarii; a considerable star. A little unequal. Both r. Distance 7'' 37''. Position 9° 42' f. preceding. A third star about 1' preceding.

57. In Anseris corpore.
Aug. 11, A pretty double star. About ½ degree n. of a cluster of stars formed by the 4th, 5th, 7th, 9th Anseris; in a line parallel to the 6th Vulpeculae and β Cygni; that of two which is farthest from the cluster. A little unequal. Both r. Distance 7'' 1''. Position 58° 36' f. following.

58. θ Persei. Fl. 13. In sinistro humero.
Aug. 20, Double. Extremely unequal. L. w. inclining to r.; S. d. Distance with 932, 13'' 31''. Position 20° 0' n. preceding. A third star, very unequal, within 1'; towards the south.

59. Ad Fl. 19am Persei. In capite.
Aug. 20, Double. It is perhaps the 19th Persei removed, or more likely a star not marked in Flamsteed's Catalogue; the 19th being either vanished, or misplaced by Flamsteed.
III. **Flamsteed.** Pretty unequal. L. bw.; S. br. Distance $12''\ 2''$. Position $0^\circ\ 0'$ following.

60. Secunda ad $\beta$ Persei. FL. 20. Illas in larva praecedit.

Aug. 20, Double. Extremely unequal. L. rw.; S. d. Distance $14''\ 2''$. Position $30^\circ\ 30'$ f. following.

61. Sub finem caudæ Draconis.

Aug. 29, Double. Of two considerable stars, about half-way between $\alpha$ and $\iota$ Draconis, that which is towards $\iota$. The two stars are parallel to $\zeta$ and $\epsilon$ Ursæ majoris. Very unequal. L. pr.; S. db. Distance $12''\ 30''$; perhaps a little inaccurate. Position $87^\circ\ 42'$ n. preceding.

62. FL. 35 Piscium. In lino austrino.

Sept. 4, Double. Considerably unequal. L. rw.; S. pr. Distance $12''\ 30''$. Position $58^\circ\ 54'$ f. following.

63. Prope FL. 65am Sagittarii. Ad extremum paludamentum.

Sept. 5, Double. Near $\frac{1}{2}$ degree f. following the 65th Sagittarii towards $\zeta$ Capricorni. Very unequal. Too low for colours; perhaps dw. Distance $14''\ 20''$. Position $73^\circ\ 48'$ n. following.

64. FL. 26 Aurigæ. In dextri cruris involucro.

Sept. 5, Double. Very unequal. L. rw.; S. r. Distance $13'\ 25''$. Position $2^\circ\ 36'$ n. preceding.

65. $\epsilon$ (FL. 58a) Persei australior. In dextri pedis talo.

Sept. 7, Double. About $10'$ south of the 58th Persei, in a line parallel to $\zeta$ and $\iota$ Aurigæ; a small telescopic star. Very unequal. L. r.; S. d. Distance with $625$, $11''\ 22''$. Position $48^\circ\ 54'$ n. following. Very inaccurate: windy.

66. $\epsilon$ Tauri. FL. 30. In dextri humeri scapula.

Sept. 7, Double. Extremely unequal. L. w.; S. r. Distance $11''\ 16''$; inaccurate on account of obscurity. Position $17^\circ\ 15'$ n. following.
III. 67. Leporis. Fl. 3. Borea praecedentis lateris quadrilateri ad aures.

Sept. 7, Double. Excessively unequal. L. w.; S. d. With 1782. 227, there was not a possibility of measuring the distance, though the glass was carefully cleaned; on trying 625, I found the star so strong that it bore a very tolerable good light*. Distance with this power 12'' 20''. Position 89° 21' n. preceding.

68. η (Fl. 17) Arietis australior et praecedens.

Sept. 10, Double. Full 1 degree south preceding η, in a line parallel to α and γ Arietis. Very unequal. L. pr.; S. d. Distance 8'' 5''. Position 55° 42' f. following.

69. Prope Fl. 64 Aquarii. In dextro femore.

Sept. 27, Double. Full 1½ degree n. following the 64th ::, in a line parallel to λ and φ Aquarii; the largest of two that follow a very obscure triangle in the finder. Extremely unequal. L. rw.; S. db. Distance 12'' 46''. Position 20° 3' f. following.

70. ξ Cephei. Fl. 1. In dextro crure.

Sept. 27, A beautiful double star. Extremely unequal. L. fine w.; S. r. Distance 5'' 47''. Position 32° 30' f. following.

* With regard to small stars, that become visible by an increase of magnifying power, we may surmise, that it is partly owing to the greater darkness of the field of view, arising from the increased power, and partly to the real effect of the power; for, though the real diameter of a star, notwithstanding it be magnified a thousand times, should still remain smaller than the minimum visible, yet since a star of the seventh magnitude may be seen by the naked eye, we may conclude, that the light of a star subtends incomparably a larger angle than its luminous body; and this may be in such a proportion, with very small stars, that the power of the telescope shall be just sufficient to magnify the real diameter so as to bring it within the limits of this proportion, whereby the star will become visible.
III. 71. Tiaram Cephei præcedens.

Sept. 27, Treble. About $1\frac{1}{2}$ degree preceding the garnet star*, in a line parallel to $\iota$ and $\zeta$ Cephei. The two nearest very unequal. L. w.; S. db. Distance $11''\ 35''''$. Position $35^\circ\ 24'$ f. following. The two farthest considerably unequal. S. db. Distance $18''\ 37''''$. Position $73^\circ\ 57'$ n. preceding. The place of the garnet star, reduced to the time of Flamsteed's Catalogue, is about AR $21h.\ 45'$. P.D. $32^\circ\frac{1}{2}$.

72. Tiaram Cephei præcedens.

Sept. 27, Double. Within $\frac{1}{4}$ degree of the foregoing treble star. Considerably unequal. L. rw.; S. pr. Distance $13''\ 7''''$. Position $32^\circ\ 0'$ n. following.

73. Fl. $25^3$ Ceti australior et sequens.

Oct. 2, Double. About $\frac{1}{4}$ degree f. following the $25$th, in a line parallel to $\theta$ and $\tau$ Ceti. Pretty unequal. Distance with $278,\ 14''\ 50''''$. Position $89^\circ\ 12'\ 1.$ preceding; perhaps a little inaccurate.

74. Fl. $18^3$ Pegasi australior. Ad oculum sinistrum.

Oct. 4, Double. About $\frac{1}{4}$ degree f. preceding the $18$, in a line parallel to $\eta$ and $\varepsilon$ Pegasi; the most north and largest of two. A little unequal. Both rw. Distance $14''\ 29''''$ full measure. Position $31^\circ\ 33'$ n. following.

75. Ad Genam Monocerotis.

Oct. 4, Double. About 1 degree n. of, and a little preceding the six telescopics in the place of the $12$th, in a line parallel to the $12$th Monocerotis and $\mu$ Geminorum.

76. $\tau\omega\nu$ quatuor telescopiarum, $\delta$ Orionis sequentium, penultima.

Oct. 4, Double. About $\frac{1}{4}$ degree n. following $\delta$, in a line parallel to $\tau$ and $\iota$ Orionis. Extremely unequal.

* Phil. Trans. vol. LXXIII. p. 257.
III. L. r.; S. d. Distance with 278, 9'' 12''. Position 13° 6' n. preceding.

77. Fl. 65am Arietis sequens ad austrum.

oa. 9, Double. About ¼ degree f. following the 65th Arietis, in a line parallel to the Pleiades and ε Tauri; the preceding of two. Very unequal. L. r.; S. bluish. Distance 8'' 32''. Position 73° 18' f. following.

78. Fl. 13am Tauri praecedens ad austrum.

oa. 9, Double. About ¼ degree f. preceding the 13th Tauri, in a line parallel to ε Tauri and δ Ceti. Nearly equal. Both pr. Distance 7'' 10''. Position 87° 57' n. preceding.

79. ε (Fl. 83a) Ceti borealior.

oa. 13, Double. About ½ degree n. of ε Ceti; the nearest of three forming an arch. Extremely unequal. L. rw.; S. darkish red. Distance with 278, 10'' 48''. Position 45° 12' f. preceding.

80. σ (Fl. 76am) Ceti praecedens. In sinistro crure.

oa. 13, Double. Full ½ degree preceding σ, towards τ Ceti. Extremely unequal. L. rw.; S. br. Distance 11'' 16''. Position 22° 24' n. preceding.

81. Parvula à ζ Lyrae ε versus.

oa. 19, Double. Above ½ degree from ζ towards ε Lyrae. Extremely unequal. L. r.; S. dr. Distance 9'' 27'' full measure. Position 66° 18' n. following.

82. Fl. 41 Aurigae.

Nov. 6, A pretty double star. Considerably unequal. L. w.; S. grey inclining to r. Distance 8'' 32''. Position 80° 0' n. preceding.
III. 83. Fl. 19 Lyncis.
Nov. 13, Double. A little unequal. L. rw.; S. bw. Distance 14" 11"''. Position 46° 54' f. preceding.

84. Fl. 40 Lyncis. In Ursæ majoris pede.
Nov. 13, Double. Very or extremely unequal. L. wr.; S. r. Distance 7" 11"''. Position 48° 12' n. preceding.

85. Fl. 2 Canum Venaticorum.
Nov. 13, Double. Very unequal. L. r.; S. bluish. Distance 12" 12"''. Position 11° 0' f. preceding.

86. Fl. 57 Ursæ majoris.
Nov. 20, Double. The largest of two stars. Excessively unequal. L. w.; S. a red point without sensible magnitude. With 227, S. is but just visible. Position 75° 36' n. following.

87. Fl. 59a Ursæ majoris borealior.
Nov. 20, A pretty treble star. Near 1½ degree n. of the 59th, in a line parallel to ψ and β Ursæ majoris nearly. The two nearest considerably unequal. L. pr.; S. r. Distance 12" 30"''. Position 0° 0' preceding. The two farthest very unequal. S. dr. Distance 32" 21"'', Position 4° 0' n. following.

88. Fl. 11a Tauri borealior et sequens.
Nov. 25, Double. About ½ degree n. following the 11th Tauri, towards ι Aurigæ. Very unequal. L. w.; S. pr. Distance with 278, 13" 37"''. Position 89° 51' n. following.

89. Ad 63am Herculis. In linea per δ et ε ducta.
Nov. 26, Double. About 4 degrees from δ towards ε Herculis, near the 63d. Very unequal. L. r.; S. r. Distance 11" 53"''. Position 47° 48' n. following.
III. 90. FL. 103a Tauri borealior.

Nov. 29, Double. About three degrees directly n. of the 103
1782. Tauri; the largest of three, forming an obtuse angle.
Considerably unequal. L. rw.; S. pr. Distance with
278, 13'' 6''. Position 64° 0' n. following.

91. FL. 62a Arietis borealior et sequens,

Dec. 23, Double. Near 1 degree n. following the 62d Ari-
1782. etis, towards ε Persei. Nearly equal. Both dw. Dis-
tance 11'' 17''; not very accurate. Position 12° 24'
n. preceding or s. following.

92. ξ (FL. 77am) Cancri praecedens ad boream.

Dec. 28, Double. About 1 degree n. preceding ξ Cancri, in a
1782. line parallel to ε Leonis and the 41st Lyncis; a consi-
derable star. A little unequal. Both rw. Distance
8'' 50''. Position 65° 12' s. preceding.

93. FL. 117 Tauri.

Dec. 31, Double. Almost equal. Both rw. Distance 12''
1782. 12''. Position 52° 27' s. following.

94. ν (FL. 7am) Leporis praecedens ad boream.

Dec. 31, Double. About 1½ degree n. preceding ν Leporis, in
1782. a line parallel to ρ and ε Orionis; the second in that
line. Equal. Both rw. Distance 11'' 44''. Posi-
tion 4° 0' s. following or n. preceding.

95. ν (FL. 48am) Eridani praecedens ad austrum.

Jan. 2, Double. Near ½ degree s. preceding ν, in a line from
1783. the 51st continued through the 48th Eridani. Extremely
unequal. L. rw.; S. d. and hardly to be seen with
227. Distance with 278, 15'' 21''; very inaccurate
on account of obscurity. Position 9° 18' s. preceding.
III. 96. Fl. 17 Crateris.
Jan. 10, Double. Nearly equal. Both rw. Distance 9" 1783. 46'''. Position 64° 27' f. preceding.

97. Fl. 54 Hydræ.
Jan. 10, Double. Very unequal. L. w.; S. bluish r. Distance 11'' 17'''; too low for great accuracy. Position 38° 15' f. following.

98. Ad Genam Monocerotis.
Jan. 13, Double. About ½ degree f. preceding the most f. of 1783, a cluster of six telescopics in the place of the 12th, in a line parallel to the 15th and 12th Monocerotis. Excessively unequal. Position 61° 57' f. preceding.

99. Fl. 55 Eridani.
Jan. 31, Double. A very little unequal. L. pr.; S. rw. Distance 9" 9'''. Position 44° 9' n. preceding.

100. Fl. 55am Eridani praecedens ad austrum.
Jan. 31, Double. About 2¼ degrees f. preceding the 55th 1783. Eridani, in a line parallel to Rigel and γ Eridani. Considerably unequal. L. pr.; S. db. Distance 11'' 53'''. Position 16° 24' f. preceding.

101. k Centauri. Fl. 3.
Jan. 31, Double. Considerably unequal. L. dw.; S. dpr. Distance 11'' 35'''. Position 22° 0' f. following.

102. b (Fl. 29am) Herculis praecedens ad austrum.
Feb. 3, Double. About 1¼ degree f. preceding b Herculis 1783. towards ε Serpentis; a small star. Very unequal. Both r. Distance 14'' 2''. Position 67° 12' n. following.

103. ε (Fl. 37a). Serpentis borealior et sequens.
March 4, Double. Near two degrees f. following ε, in a line parallel to the 13th Serpentis and 10th Serpentarii. Very unequal. L. pr.; S. r.; but a dry fog, if I may
so call it, probably tinges them too deeply. Distance with $278, 12'' 34'''$; with $625, 12'' 23'''$. Position $50^\circ 12' n.$ preceding.

104. Fl. 83am Herculis præcedens.

Mar. 26, Double. About $\frac{1}{3}$ degree preceding the 83; the second star towards the 79th Herculis. Very unequal. L. r.; S. darker r. Distance $14'' 20'''$. Position $83^\circ 48' n.$ preceding.

105. γ (Fl. 125) Sagittæ borealior et præcedens.

April 7, Double. About $2'$ preceding the double star V. 106. Pretty unequal. L. r.; S. d. Distance $14'' 29'''$; very inaccurate, on account of obscurity. Position $50^\circ 24' s.$ preceding.

106. Fl. 5 Serpentis.

May 21, Double. Excessively unequal. L. rw.; S. db. Too obscure for measures. Of the third class, far. Position about $30^\circ$ or $40^\circ n.$ following.

107. Congerie Stellularum Sagittarii borealior.

June 6, Double. Above $1\frac{1}{4}$ degree n. of the 20th cluster of stars of the Connoissance des Temps, in a line parallel to γ Sagittarii and the cluster: the most south of many. Considerably unequal. Distance with $278, 15'' 10'''$. As accurate as the prismatic power of the atmosphere, which lengthens the stars, will permit. Position $54^\circ 48' s.$ preceding*.

* What I call the prismatic power of the atmosphere, of which little notice has been taken by astronomers, is that part of its refractive quality whereby it disperses the rays of light, and gives a lengthened and coloured image of a lucid point. It is very visible in low stars; Fomalhaut, for instance, affords a beautiful prismatic spectrum. That this power ought not to be overlooked in delicate
III. 108. Fl. 19am Aquilæ præcedens ad boream.

July 7, Double. Above ¼ n. preceding the 19th, in a line parallel to β and ζ Aquilæ. Very unequal. L. r.; S. dr. Distance 12″ 58‴. Position 58° 27′ f. following.

109. Fl. 19am Aquilæ præcedens ad Boream.

July 7, Double. About ⅓ degree n. preceding the 19th, in a line parallel to ε and δ Aquilæ. Pretty unequal. Both rw. Distance 10″ 13‴. Position 22° 6′ n. preceding.

110. Fl. 77a Cygni borealior et præcedens.

Sept. 17, Quadruple. Full ¾ degree n. preceding the 17th, in a line parallel to σ and α Cygni; a small star. The two nearest extremely unequal. L. r.; S. d. Distance with 625, 13″ 54‴. Position 67° 36′ f. following. The two largest a very little unequal. Both r. Distance with 278, 25″ 58‴. Position 40° 33′ n. fol-

and low observations, is evident from some measures I have taken to ascertain its quantity. Thus I found, May 4, 1783, that the perpendicular diameter of ε, Flamsteed's 20th Sagittarii, measured 16″ 9‴, while the horizontal was 8″ 35‴; which gives 7″ 34‴ for the prismatic effect: the measures were taken with 460, near the meridian, and the air remarkably clear. And though this power, which depends on the obliquity of the incident ray, diminishes very fast in greater altitudes, yet I have found its effects perceivable as high, not only as α or γ Corvi in the meridian, but up to Spica Virginis, and even to Regulus. Experiments on these two latter stars I made November 20, 1782; when Regulus, at the altitude of 49°, shewed the purple rather fuller at the bottom of the field of view than when it was at the upper edge; which shews that the prismatic powers of the edges of the eye lens were assisted in one situation by the power of the atmosphere, but counteracted by it in the other. I turned the eye lens in all situations, to convince myself that it was not in fault. This experiment explains also, why a star is not always best in the center of the field of view; a fact I have often noticed before I knew the cause.

Vol. LXXV.
following. The farthest very unequal. S. d. Position almost in a line with the two largest.

111. ε (FL. 46a) Orionis borealior et sequens.

Sept. 20, Treble. About 1¼ degree n. following ε, towards 1783. α Orionis. The two nearest of the third class.

112. δ (FL. 18am) Cygni sequens ad austrum.

Sept. 22, Double. About 1 degree f. following δ, towards the 1783. 47th Cygni; a pretty considerable star. Equal, or perhaps the southern star the smallest. Both pr. Distance with 278, 10″ 8‴. Position 71° 0′. f. following.

113. FL. 27am Cygni praecedens ad austrum.

Sept. 23, Quadruple and Sextuple. About ½ degree f. preceding the treble star I. 96.; the middle of three, the most north whereof is the 27th Cygni. In the quadruple or n. preceding set, the two nearest very unequal. Distance with 278, 11″ 16″. Position 26° 0′ n. preceding; the two largest almost equal. Both r. Distance with 278, 29″ 27‴. Position 57° 12′ n. following. In the sextuple or f. following set, the two largest pretty unequal. Both r. Distance with 278, 19″ 20‴. Position 27° 36′ f. preceding. All the other stars are as small as the smallest of the quadruple set, and some of them much smaller.

114. FL. 16am Monocerotis praecedens ad boream.

Jan. 23, Double. About 1¼ degree n. preceding the 16th.
FOURTH CLASS OF DOUBLE STARS.

IV. 45. In pectoris crate Orionis.
Dec. 27, Double. About \( \frac{2}{3} \) degree following \( \psi \), towards \( n \)
1781. Orionis. Extremely unequal. L. pr.; S. dr. Distance with 278, 20'' 3''. Position 62° 24' f. following.

46. FL. 21 :: Geminorum *.
Dec. 27, Double. A little unequal. Both pr. Distance
1781. about 25''. Position

47. FL. 3 Leonis.
Feb. 2, Double. Excessively unequal. L. r.; S. d.; not
1782. visible with 227. Distance estimated with 460, about
24''. Position a little n. following. A third star in view. Distance perhaps 2'. Position about 15° f. following.

48. H (FL. 1am) Geminorum praecedens ad boream.
Feb. 6, Quintuple. In the form of a cross. About \( \frac{2}{3} \) degree
1782. n. preceding H Geminorum, in a line parallel to the
65th Orionis and \( \zeta \) Tauri; the middle of three. The
two nearest or preceding of the five extremely unequal.
Distance 20'' 57''. Position 7° 27' f. preceding. The
last of the three, in the short bar of the cross, has an
excessively obscure star near it of the third class. Five
more in view, differently dispersed about the quintuple.

* The 21st and 20th Geminorum are not in the heavens as they are marked in
Flamsteed's Atlas, so that it becomes doubtful whether the N° 21. is right.
IV. 49. ξ (FL. 4am) Virginis sequens ad boream.
Feb. 6, Double. 1 full degree n. following ξ Virginis, in a line parallel to α and β Leonis. A little unequal. L. pr.; S. dr. Distance 27'' 28''. Position 56° 30' f. preceding.

50. FL. 17 Virginis. In pectore.
Feb. 6, Double. Considerably unequal. L. w.; S. bluish. 1782. Distance 20'' 9''. Position 58° 21' n. preceding.

51. k Virginis :: FL. 44 :: †. In ala austrina.
Feb. 6, Double. A star south of three forming an arch, and of the same magnitude with the middle one of the arch. Extremely unequal. L. w.; S. db. Distance 22'' 17''; inaccurate. Position 32° 30' n. following.

52. * Cancri. FL. 48. In boreali forficis.
Feb. 8, Double. Considerably unequal. L. rw.; S. d. garnet. Distance 29'' 54''. Position 39° 54' n. preceding; a little inaccurate.

53. π Geminorum. FL. 80. Supra capita.
Feb. 9, Double. Excessively unequal. L. garnet; S. d. 1782. Distance with 460, 21'' 30''. Position Other very small stars in view.

54. δ (FL. 4am) Hydræ sequens.
Feb. 11, Double. About ½ degree following δ, towards ζ. 1782. Hydræ. Pretty unequal. Both pr. S. deeper. Distance 25'' 43''. Position 59° 24' n. following.

55. FL. 41am Lyncis sequens. In caudæ fine.
Mar. 5, Double. About 3½ minutes n. following the 41st 1782. Lyncis. Extremely unequal. L. r.; S. dr. Distance 15'' 52''; a little inaccurate. Position 50° 48' n. preceding; inaccurate.

† Perhaps the 45th; requires fixed instruments to determine.
IV. 56. FL. 18 Librae.

April 3, Double. The following of two. Extremely unequal. L. r.; S. b. Distance 17'' 59''. Position 44° 45' n. following.

57. FL. 42am Comæ Berenices sequens ad austrum.

April 15, Double. About 3 degrees f. following the 42d Comæ Berenices towards v Bootis; the vertex of an isosceles triangle. Extremely unequal. Distance with 625, 16'' 42''. Position 46° 31' f. preceding.

58. FL. 36am Comæ Berenices praecedens ad boream.

April 18, A pretty double star. About 2½ degrees n. preceding the 36th, in a line parallel to the 42d and 15th Comæ Berenices; the following of two unequal stars. A little unequal. Both rw. Distance 15'' 52''. Position 67° 57' f. preceding.

59. Prope α Lyrae.

May 12, Double. About 2 or 3 minutes f. preceding α Lyrae. Very unequal. Both d. Distance with 278, 22'' 20''. Position 33° 57' n. preceding. Position of the largest with regard to α Lyrae 59° 12' f. preceding.

60. FL. 4am Ursa majoris sequens ad boream.

June 6, Double. Near 1 degree n. following the 4th, in a line parallel to o and h Ursa majoris; a pretty large star. Extremely unequal. L. r.; S. d. Distance near 30''; but too obscure for measures.

61. ξ (FL. 7a) Coronæ australior et praecedens.

July 18, Double. Near ½ degree f. preceding ξ, towards η Coronæ bor. Nearly equal. Both pr. Distance 16'' 46''. Position 4° 57' n. following.
Mr. Herschel's Catalogue

IV. 62. τ (FL. 22) Herculis australior et sequens.
Aug. 11, Double. About 2½ degrees f. following τ Herculis, 1782. in a line parallel to ι and γ Draconis; a considerable star. Very or extremely unequal. L. w.; S. br. Distance 16″ 51‴. Position 72° 15′ f. preceding.

63. FL. 42 Herculis. Dextrum supra genu.
Aug. 11, Double. Very unequal. L. r.; S. rw. Distance 1782. 21″ 31‴. Position 3° 42′ f. following.

64. Prope q (FL. 12am) Persei.
Aug. 20, Double. Within a few minutes of q Persei. Pretty unequal. Both pr.; but S. a little darker. Distance 21″ 59‴. Position 57° 57′ f. preceding.

65. Prope FL. 3am Cassiopeiae.
Aug. 25, Double. Within 10 minutes of the 3d Cassiopeiae. 1782. Very unequal. L. pr.; S. r. Distance 20″ 46‴; very inaccurate. Position 41° 12′ f. following.

66. θ (FL. 33am) Cassiopeiae praecedens.
Aug. 28, Double. About 1¼ degree f. of, and a little preceding θ, in a line from δ continued through θ Cassiopeiae. Extremely unequal. L. r.; S. db. Distance 24″ 2‴; very inaccurate. Position 13° 12′ n. following; inaccurate.

67. † FL. 40 et 41 Draconis.
Aug. 29, Double. A little unequal. L. rw.; S. pr. Distance 20′ 39‴ mean measure; very accurate. Position 35° 15′ f. preceding*. There is a third, much smaller star. Distance 3′ 16″ 33‴. Position about 30° f. following.

* The proper motion of one of these stars at least since the time of Flamsteed is evident, as he gives us their difference in AR 2′, and in PD 3′ 5″. Position f. preceding. Hence we have the hypotenuse or distance above 3′ 40″, instead of 20″ 39‴; and the angle 86° 17′ instead of 35° 15′.
IV. 68. Fl. 77 Piscium. In lini flexu.

Sept. 3, Double. A little unequal. L. wr.; S. pr. Distance 29'' 36'''. Position 4° 48' n. following. In both measures the weather too windy for accuracy.

69. Fl. 23am Andromedæ praecedens.

Sept. 4, Double. Full 1½ degree preceding the 23d, in a line parallel to ν and ι Andromedæ. Of two double stars in the finder the largest of the preceding set. Very unequal. L. r.; S. d. Distance with 278, 21'' 58'''. Position 70° 36' n. preceding.

70. Fl. 51 Piscium. In austrino lino.

Sept. 4, Double. Very unequal. L. rw.; S. d. Distance with 278, 22'' 29'''. Position 0° 36' n. following.

71. *o Capricorni. Fl. 12. Trium in rostro austrina.

Sept. 5, Double. Pretty unequal. Both rw. Distance 23'' 30'''. Position 30° 45' f. preceding.

72. Fl. 55a Persei borealior.

Sept. 7, Double. About ¼ degree n. of the 55th Persei; of three in a line the most north. Pretty unequal. L. rw.; S. pr. Distance with 278, 16'' 51'''. Position 27° 24' n. following.

73. In Constellatione Camelopardali.

Sept. 7, Double. Between Fl. 2 and 8 Cam.; the smallest of two that are within ¼ degree of each other. Considerably unequal. Distance 19'' 32'''. Position 85° o' f. preceding.

74. δ (Fl. 68am) Tauri sequens ad boream.

Sept. 7, Double. Near ½ degree n. following δ, towards Tauri. Very unequal. L. pr.; S. r. Distance 16'' 31'''. Position 25° 45' n. following.
Mr. Herschel's Catalogue

IV. 75. r (Fl. 66am) Tauri sequens.
Sept. 7, Double. About 1¼ degree n. following r, in a line parallel to μ Tauri and the 9th Orionis. Very unequal. L. r.; S. dr. Distance 22" 35"". Position 61° 36' s. following.

76. Fl. 13am Ceti praecedens ad austrum.
Sept. 9, Double. About 1 degree f. preceding the 13th, towards the 8th Ceti. Considerably unequal. L. rw.; S. br. Distance with 278, 18" 35"". Position 40° 24' n. following.

77. Fl. 37a Ceti borealior. In dorso.
Sept. 22, Double. About ¼ degree n. preceding the 37th, towards the 36th Ceti. Very unequal. L. r.; S. dr. Distance 19" 6"". Position 63° 24' n. preceding.

78. η (Fl. 3am) Cephei praecedens.
Sept. 27, Double. About 1¼ degree preceding η, in a line from ε continued through η Cephei. Very unequal. L. r.; S. d. Distance 19" 32"". Position 40° 36' n. following.

79. μ Cephei. Fl. 13. Ad coronam.
Sept. 27, Double. A little unequal. L. w.; S. rw. Distance 21" 3"". Position 77° 48' s. preceding.

80. β (Fl. 2a) Canis majoris borealior.
Sept. 30, Double. About 1¼ degree n. of β Canis majoris towards the 11th Monocerotis; the most n. of two. Considerably unequal. Distance 17" 59""; difficult to take, and perhaps a little inaccurate. Position 2° 24' n. following.

81. v Canis majoris. Fl. 6. In dextro genu.
Sept. 30, Double. Considerably unequal. L. rw.; S. pr. Dist. 18" 19"". Position very near directly preceding.
IV. 82. Prope Fl. 16\textsuperscript{am} Cephei. In cingulo.

sept. 30, Double. Above \(\frac{1}{4}\) degree following the 16th Cephei, 1782. in a line parallel to \(\beta\) and \(\alpha\) Cassiopeiae. Considerably unequal. L. orange. S. r. Distance 28\textsuperscript{''} 5\textsuperscript{''''}. Position 79° 18' n. preceding.

83. Fl. 26 Ceti. Supra dorsum.

oct. 2, Double. Very unequal. L. rw. S. db. Distance 1782. 17\textsuperscript{''} 2\textsuperscript{''''} mean measure. Position 14° 36' f. preceding.

84. m Orionis. Fl. 23 In crate pectoris

oct. 2, Double. Considerably unequal. L. w.; S. pr. 1782. Distance with 278, 26\textsuperscript{''} 9\textsuperscript{''''}. Position 59° 33' n. following.

85. Fl. ultima Lacertae.

oct. 4, Treble. The two nearest extremely unequal. L. 1782. rw.; S. d. Distance 20\textsuperscript{''} 27\textsuperscript{''''}. Position 79° 33' n. preceding. The next very unequal; S. r. Distance 54\textsuperscript{''} 57\textsuperscript{''''}; inaccurate. Position 44° 24' n. following. A fourth and fifth star in view.

86. Fl. 8 Lacertae. In media cauda.

oct. 4, Quadruple. The two largest and nearest a little unequal. Both rw. Distance 17\textsuperscript{''} 14\textsuperscript{''''}. Position 84° 30' f. preceding. The two next very unequal, of the fourth class. The two remaining considerably unequal, of the fifth class. They form an arch.

87. e (Fl. 29\textsuperscript{am}) Orionis praecedens. In finistro calcaneo.

oct. 4, Double. About 1 degree preceding e, in a line parallel to \(\sigma\) Orionis and \(\delta\) Eridani nearly. Considerably unequal. Both pr. Distance 29\textsuperscript{''} 18\textsuperscript{''''}. Position 82° 18' n. following.
98 Mr. Herschel's Catalogue

IV. 88. Fl. 7 Tauri. In dorio.

89. Double. Very unequal. L. pr.; S. dr. Distance 1782. 19'' 50''. Position 23° 15' n. following.

89. E telescopicis caudam Arietis sequentibus.

90. Double. The vertex of an isosceles triangle following τ Arietis; a very small star. Very unequal. L. r.; S. d. Distance with 278, 20'' 3''. Position 62° 0' f. following.

90. Ad Fl. 18am Ursae minoris. Prope eductionem caudae.

91. Double. The largest of six or seven stars, and most south of a triangle formed by three of them. A little unequal. L. pr.; S. deeper pr. Distance 26'' 24''. Position 3° 12' n. following.

91. Fl. 2 Navis.

92. β inter et ζ Delphini.

93. ε (Fl. 4am) Lyrae sequens.

94. Double. Full 2 degrees n. preceding β Lyrae, in a line parallel to the 18th and ε; the sixth telescopic star. Considerably
IV. Considerably unequal. L. rw.; S. pr. Distance $22''$ $53''$. Position $5^\circ 24'$ n. following.

95. Fl. 25am Monocerotis praecedens.

Oct. 19, Quadruple. About $2\frac{1}{2}$ degrees preceding, and a little $1782$. n. of the 25th Monocerotis. Two large stars always to be seen, and two more only visible in dark nights. The nearest which is that to the smallest of the two large ones, extremely unequal. Distance $20''$ $27''$. Position following.

96. Fl. 25am Monocerotis sequens. In latere.

Oct. 19, Double. About $1\frac{1}{4}$ n. following the 25th, in a line $1782$. parallel to the 21st Monocerotis and Procyon. A little unequal. Both dr. Distance $18''$ $19''$. Position $24^\circ 0'$ f. preceding.

97. Fl. 29 Monocerotis. In femore.

Oct. 19, Double. Extremely unequal. L. wr.; S. d. Distance $29''$ $54''$. Position $15^\circ 12'$ f. following. Six more in view.

98. $\alpha$ (Fl. 58am) Orionis ad austrum praeiens.

Oct. 29, Double. About $\frac{1}{2}$ degree preceding $\alpha$, towards $\zeta$ $1782$. Orionis. Equal. Both r. Distance $17''$ $59''$; a little inaccurate.

99. Duarum telescopicarum $\delta$ Sagittae ad austrum sequentium borea.

Nov. 6, Treble. Of a trapezium, consisting of this treble $1782$. star, $\delta$, $\zeta$, and the 9th Sagittae, it is the corner opposite to $\zeta$; the nearest to $\zeta$ of two. The two nearest very unequal. L. pr.; S. db. Distance $21''$ $22''$; inaccurate. Position $0^\circ 0'$ following. The two largest a little unequal; of the fifth class. Position $10^\circ 36'$ f. preceding.
100. χ Sagittæ. Fl. 13. Infra mediam arundinem.

Nov. 6, Treble. The largest of three. The two nearest
1782. equal. Both r. Distance 23'' 2'''. Position 10° 12' f.
preceding. The third is a large star. Distance above
1 minute. Position about 10° or 15° n. preceding the
other two.

101. φ (Fl. 24a) Aurigæ borealior et præcedens.

Nov. 6, Double. Near ½ degree n. preceding φ, in a line
1782. parallel to the 21st and 8th Aurigæ. Pretty unequal.
L. rw. S. bluish. Distance 25'' 29'''. Position
76° 0' n. preceding.

102. Fl. 59 Aurigæ.

Nov. 6, Double. The apex of an isosceles triangle. Very
1782. or extremely unequal. L. rw.; S. Distance
23'' 30'''. Position 50° 3' f. preceding.

103. Fl. 77am Draconis sequitur.

Nov. 13, Double. Near ½ degree following the 77th Dra-
1782. conis, in a line parallel to ρ Cephei and the 76th Dra-
conis nearly; of a rectangular triangle the leg nearest
the 77th. Very unequal. L. r.; S. bluish r. Dis-
tance 22'' 35'''. Position 45° 48' n. following.

104. Inter 2 et 55am Andromedæ.

Nov. 13, Double. A little more than 1 degree n. following
1782. the 55th Andromedæ, in a line parallel to β Trianguli
and Algol. Considerably unequal. L. r.; S. d. Dis-
tance with 278, 18'' 57'''. Position 22° 33' n. fol-
lowing.

105. δ Corvi. Fl. 7. Duarum in ala sequente præcedens.

Nov. 13, Double. Extremely unequal. L. w.; S. r. Dis-
1782. tance 23'' 30'''. Position 54° 0' f. preceding.
IV. 106. α (Fl. 50am) Ursae majoris sequens ad boream.

Nov. 17, Double. About 1¼ degree n. following α, in a line parallel to β Ursae et η Draconis; the last of three in a row. Extremely unequal. Both r. Distance 18″ 55‴; very inaccurate. Position 44° 33′ f. following. A third small star in view.

107. Fl. 79a Pegasi australior et praecedens.

Nov. 20, Double. About ¼ degree f. preceding the 79th, towards τ Pegasi; at the center of a trefoil. Very unequal. L. r.; S. d. Distance with 278, 26″ 12‴. Position 50° 21′ n. following.

108. Fl. 69a Ursae majoris australior.

Nov. 20, Double. Near 2 degrees f. of the 69th, towards the 63d Ursae majoris. A very little unequal. Both r. Distance 19″ 15‴; very inaccurate. Position 10° 12′ n. following.

109. Fl. 62 Tauri.

Nov. 25, Double. Considerably unequal. L. w.; S. r. Distance 28″ 5‴. Position 21° 12′ n. preceding.

110. β (Fl. 112a) Tauri borealior et sequens.

Dec. 24, Double. About 1¼ degree n. following β Tauri, towards θ Aurigae; the second in that direction. Very unequal. L. r.; S. d. Distance 16″ 1‴. Position 74° 54′ n. preceding.

111. Fl. 54 Cancri.

Dec. 28, Double. A little unequal. Both rw. S. a little darker. Distance 17″ 14‴. Position 29° 0′ f. following.

112. γ (Fl. 15am) Crateris sequens ad boream.

Jan. 1, Double. About 1 degree n. following γ Crateris, in a line parallel to δ Corvi and Spica. Equal. Both pr. Distance
Mr. Herschel's Catalogue

IV. Distance $26''\ 15'''$; too low for accuracy. Position $58^\circ\ 42'$ n. preceding or f. following.

113. FL. 61a Cygni borealior et praecedens.

Jan. 6, Double. About $\frac{1}{4}$ degree n. preceding the 61st, in 1783. a line parallel to $\upsilon$ and $\alpha$ Cygni. Very or extremely unequal. L.r.; S.db. Distance with $278,\ 17''\ 30'''$. Position $28^\circ\ 24'$ n. preceding. A third star in view.

114. t (FL. 12a) Virginis australior.

Jan. 8, Double. About $\frac{1}{2}$ degree f. of t Virginis. Very unequal. L.pr.; S.d. Distance $23''\ 21'''$. Position $15^\circ\ 54'$ n. preceding.

115. φ (FL. 11am) Herculis praecedens ad austrum.

Jan. 10, Double. About $2\frac{1}{2}$ degrees f. of, and a little preceding φ, in a line parallel to η and ζ Herculis; the largest of three or four. Extremely unequal. L.r.; S.b. Distance $20''\ 54'''$. Position $43^\circ\ 48'$ n. following.

116*. FL. 83am Pegasi sequens ad boream.

Jan. 13, Double. Equal. Both w. Distance $28''\ 59'''$. 1783. Position $68^\circ\ 21'$. Mr. C. Mayer, in 1777, settled its place $AR^h.\ 52'\ 53''$ in time, and $20^\circ\ 17'\ 53''$ in declination N.

117. FL. 42a Eridani australior.

Jan. 31, Double. About $\frac{1}{4}$ degree f. of the 42d Eridani, in 1783. a line parallel to Rigel and μ Leporis; the most south and following of three. Very unequal. L.r.; S.r. Distance $19''\ 32'''$. Position $31^\circ\ 48'$ f. preceding.

118. i (FL. 48am) Cancri sequens.

Feb. 5, Double. Full $\frac{1}{2}$ degree following the 48th, in a line parallel to δ Cancri and ε Leonis; a very small star, next to two more which are nearer to i. A little unequal.
of Double Stars.

IV. qual. Distance $24''\ 6''$. Position about $25^\circ$ n. following.

119. (Fl. 68am) Virginis præcedens ad austrum.
Feb. 7, Double. About 1 degree f. preceding the 68th, in a line parallel to the 99th and $\alpha$ Virginis. Extremely unequal. Distance $21''\ 49''$. Position $36^\circ\ 54'$ n. preceding.

120. Fl. 82am Piscium sequens ad boream.
Feb. 27, Double. About $\frac{3}{4}$ degree n. following the 82d Piscium, in a line parallel to $\alpha$ and $\beta$ Trianguli; the largest of two. Considerably unequal. L. rw.; S pr. Distance $18''\ 19''$. Position $21^\circ\ 0'$ f. preceding. A third star in view.

121. $\sigma$ Scorpii Fl. 20. præcedens trium lucidarum in corpore.
Mar. 1, Double. Very unequal. L. whitish; S. r. Distance $21''\ 40''$. Position $0^\circ\ 0'$ (or perhaps $1^\circ$) n. preceding.

122. Fl. 32a Ophiuchi borealior et præcedens.
Mar. 7, Double. Near 1 degree n. of, and a little preceding the 32d Ophiuchi, in a line parallel to $\alpha$ and $\eta$ Herculis. Very unequal. Distance $21''\ 3''$. Position $25^\circ\ 3'$ f. preceding.

123. Fl. 19 Ophiuchi.
Mar. 9, Double. The most south of two. Very unequal. L. pr.; S. d. Distance $20''\ 27''$. Position $3^\circ\ 9'$ f. following.

124. $\psi$ (Fl. 4am) Ophiuchi præcedens ad austrum.
Mar. 24, Double. About $\frac{3}{4}$ degree preceding and a little f. of $\psi$, in a line parallel to $\psi$ Ophiuchi and $\omega$ Scorpii; in the base of a triangle, the nearest to $\psi$. A little unequal. Both
IV. Both inclining to r. Distance $15''\ 24''$. Position $62^\circ\ 54'$ n. following.

125. Fl. 29 Camelopardali.

April 2, Double. Very unequal. L. pr.; S. d. Distance $1783.\ 22''\ 26''$; very inaccurate. Position $47^\circ\ 36'$. f. following; a little inaccurate.

126. $\lambda$ (Fl. 22$^a$) Cephei borealior et praecedens.

April 20, Double. Less than $\frac{1}{2}$ degree n. preceding $\lambda$, in a line almost parallel to $\delta$ and $\zeta$ Cephei; a considerable star. A little unequal. Both dw. Distance $18''\ 50''$. Position $45^\circ\ 39'$. n. preceding.

127. $\lambda$ (Fl. 16$^{am}$) Aquilæ sequens ad boream.

May 21, Double. About $2\frac{1}{2}$ degrees n. following the farthest of two which are about $1\frac{1}{2}$ degree from $\lambda$, in a line parallel to $\lambda$ and $\delta$ Aquilæ. Very unequal. L. rw.; S. dr. Distance $17''\ 14''$; more exact with $932,\ 15''\ 52''$. Position $69^\circ\ 54'$. n. preceding. Mr. Pigott, who favoured me with it, gives its place AR $18^\text{h}\ 52'\frac{1}{2}$ ±, Declination $1^\circ\ 0'$. S.

128. $\gamma$ (Fl. 57$^{am}$) Andromedæ praecedens ad austrum.

July 28, Double. About $1\frac{1}{2}$ degree f. preceding $\gamma$ almost towards $\beta$ Andromedæ; more exact towards $\sigma$ Piscium; one not in a row of stars which are near that place. Considerably unequal. L. pr.; S. dr. Distance $15''\ 42''$. Position $24^\circ\ 12'$. n. following.

129. Fl. 59 Andromedæ.

July 28, Double. A little unequal. L. rw.; S. pr. Distance $15''\ 15''$. Position $55^\circ\ 9'$. n. following. A third star in view about $58^\circ$ or $60^\circ$ f. preceding.
IV. 130. η (Fl. 99°) Piscium borealior et sequens.

Aug. 2, Double. About 1½ degree n. of, and a little following η Piscium, in a line parallel to β Arietis and β Trianguli; the last of four in a crooked row. Very unequal. L. r.; S. darker r. Distance with 278, 15″ 49″″. Position 62° 15′ n. following.

131. Fl. 100 Piscium.

Aug. 2, Double. Pretty unequal. L. pr.; S. r. Distance 1783. 15″ 52″″. Position 5° 0′ n. following.

132. Fl. 46 Aquilæ sequens ad boream.

Aug. 6, Double. About ½ degree n. following 46 Aquilæ, in a line parallel to α and γ Sagittæ. Very unequal. L. r.; S. db. Distance 22″ 44″″. Position 41° 24′ n. preceding.

FIFTH CLASS OF DOUBLE STARS.

V. 52. Secunda a ν Geminorum μ versus.

Dec. 27, Double. The second star from ν towards μ Geminorum. Pretty unequal. L. r.; S. b. Distance 35″; inaccurate.

53. ρ Geminorum. Fl. 63. In inguine sequentis II°.

Dec. 27, Double. The brightest of two. Extremely unequal. L. pr.; S. d. Distance 44″ 15″″.

54. θ Hydræ. Fl. 22. Duarum in eductione cervicis sequens.

Jan. 20, Double. Excessively unequal. L. w.; S. a point. Distance near 1 minute, too obscure for measures, and not
not visible till after having looked a good while at it.
Position about $75^\circ$ f. following.

55. Ad Fl. 12am Geminorum. In pede II praecedentis sinistro.
Jan. 30, Treble. A small star near the place of the 12th
1782. Geminorum. The two nearest a little unequal. Dis-
tance less than $1'$.

56. Fl. 15 Geminorum. Dextrum prioris II pedem attingens.
Jan. 30, Double. Considerably or very unequal. L. r.; S. d.
1782. Distance $32'' 39'''$. Position near $60^\circ$ f. preceding.

57. Fl. 9a Orionis borealior et sequens. In exuviarum
summo.
Feb. 4, Treble. More than 1 degree n. following the 9th
1782. Orionis, towards the 113th Tauri; the largest of two.
The two nearest considerably unequal. L. rw.; S. rw.
Distance with $278, 36'' 26'''$. Position $33^\circ 36'$. The
farthest very unequal. S. r. Distance Vth Clas. Po-
sition following.

58. Fl. 7 Leonis. Supra pedem borealem anteriorem.
Feb. 4, Double. Very unequal. L. rw.; S. r. Distance
1782. $42'' 25'''$. Position $8^\circ 36'$ n. following.

59. θ Cancri. Fl. 31. In quadrilatero circa Nubem.
Feb. 6, Double. Extremely unequal. L. r.; S. d. Dis-
1782. tance $44'' 52'''$. Position n. following.

60. ο (Fl. 95am) Leonis praecedens; ad caudam.
Feb. 9, Double. Near $\frac{3}{4}$ degree f. preceding the 95th, in a
1782. line parallel to β and ξ Leonis. Very unequal. L. rw.;
S. d. Distance $37'' 15'''$. Position $70^\circ 48'$ n. fol-
lowing.

61. Fl. 81 Leonis. In clune.
Feb. 9, Double. Extremely unequal. L. rw.; S. r. Dis-
1782. tance $57'' 23'''$. Position
of Double Stars.

V. 62. Fl. 57 Leonis. E posteriores pedes praecedentibus.
Feb. 11, 1782. Double. Very unequal. Distance 33'' 16'''.
63. Fl. 25 Leonis. In infimo pectore.
Feb. 17, Double. The largest of two. Extremely unequal.
1782. L. pr.; S. d. Distance 52'' 46'''. Position
64. Fl. 43a Leonis australior. Ad sinistrum anteriorem cubitum.
Feb. 17, Double. Near 1 degree f. of the 43d, in a line parallel to η and α Leonis. Extremely unequal. L. w. inclining to r.; S. db. Distance 59'' 40'''. Position
65. Secunda ad π Canis majoris. Fl. 17. In pectore.
Mar. 3, Treble. The two nearest very unequal. L. rw.;
1782. S. r. Distance 44'' 52'''. Position 64° 12' f. following.
The two farthest very or extremely unequal. S. r.
Distance Vth Class. Position about 85° f. preceding.
The three stars form a rectangle, the hypotenuse of which contains the largest and smallest.
66. ρ (Fl. 63a) Geminorum borealior.
Mar. 3, Double. About ¼ degree n. of, and a little preceding ρ, in a line parallel to u and α Geminorum. Very unequal. L. pr.; S. d. Distance 34'' 39'''. Position 1° or 2° n. preceding.
67. Pollucem prope. In capite sequentis IIi.
Mar. 3, Double. Near 1 degree n. following β, in a line from δ continued through β Geminorum nearly; the farthest and smallest of three. Considerably unequal.
L. r.; S. dr. Distance 47'' 37'''.
68. Fl. 75am Leonis praecedens ad boream.
Mar. 5, Treble. One of two n. preceding the 75th, in a line parallel to the 84th and 59th Leonis. The two nearest
V. nearest very unequal. Distance $54''\ 37''$. The farthest extremely unequal.

69. Fl. 7 Leonis minoris. In extremo anteriore pede.

Mar. 12, Double. The largest of two. Extremely unequal.

1782. L. pr.; S. r. Distance $58''\ 18''$.

70. Fl. 2am Bootis praecedens ad boream.

April 5, Double. Near 3 degrees n. preceding the 2d Bootis.

1782. towards the 43d Comæ Ber.; the preceding of three in a line parallel to α and η Bootis. A little unequal.

L. r.; S. darker r. Distance $56'\ 56''$. Position $7°\ 0'$ f. preceding.

71. Prope γ (Fl. 24am) Geminorum.

April 15, Double. Three or four minutes n. preceding γ Geminorum. Of the Vth Class. More in view.

1782. + m Herculis. Fl. 36 et 37. In sinistro Serpentarii brachio.

May 18, Double. A little unequal. L. bluish w. S. reddish w. Distance $59''\ 59''$. Position $36°\ 57'$ f. preceding *.

73. τ Ursæ majoris. Fl. 14. Duarum in collo praecedens.

June 11, Double. Extremely unequal. L. w.; S. d. Distance $54''\ 46''$. Position about $45°$ n. following.

74. S (Fl. 72a) Serpentarii borealior.

June 16, Double. More than 1 degree n. following the 56th double star of the IIIrd Class; nearly in a line parallel to the 62d and 72d Serpentarii. Very unequal. L. rw.; S. r. Distance $40''\ 54''$. Position $39°\ 15'$; inaccurate.

* One of these stars, at least, seems to have changed its place since the time of Flamsteed, who makes their difference in R.A. $45''$, and in P.D. $1' 35''$, Position f. preceding; hence we have the hypotenuse or distance above $1' 45''$, instead of $59''\ 59''$, and position $69°\ 46'$ instead of $36°\ 57'$.
V. 75. E telecopicis Coronæ borealis sequentibus.

July 18, Double. About 1 degree f. following ε, in a line parallel to θ and ε Coronæ; the preceding of three forming an arch. Extremely unequal. L. r.; S. darker r. Distance 41″ 12″″. Position 16° 0′ f. following.

76. β Aquarii. Fl. 22. In sinistro humero.

July 20, Double. Excessively unequal. L. w.; S. d. Distance about 33″ 16″″; very inaccurate. Position 55° 48′.

77. d (Fl. 43a) Sagittarii borealior et sequens.

Aug. 4, Double. A few minutes n. following the 43d, in a line parallel to o and π Sagittarii; the nearest of two. Extremely unequal. L. w.; S. d. Distance with 278, 36″ 3″″. Position 78° 45′ f. following.

78. ζ Sagittarii. Fl. 38. Trium super costis sub axilla.

Aug. 4, Double. Extremely unequal. L. r.; S. d. Distance Vth Clas. Position 28° 6′ n. preceding. A third star. Distance about four times as far as the former. Position also n. preceding.

79. Fl. 9 :: Cassiopeiae.

Aug. 25, Double. Of two in a line parallel to β and γ, that towards γ Cassiopeiae. Very unequal. L. w.; S. pr. Distance 52″ 39″″. Position 50° 36′ n. preceding.

80. τ Aquarii. Fl. 69. Duarum in dextra tibia borealior.

Aug. 28, Double. Very unequal. L. rw.; S. d. Distance 36″ 47″″. Position 19° 54′ f. following.

81. Fl. 35 :: Cassiopeiae. In sinistro crure.

Aug. 28, Double. Considerably unequal. L. rw.; S. br. Distance 42″ 35″″. Position 85° 12′ n. following.
V. 82. ν (FL. 25am) Cassiopeiae praecedens. In sinistra manu.
Aug. 28, Double. Near 4 degree n. preceding ν, in a line parallel to α and β Cassiopeiae. Nearly equal. Both pr. Distance 43'' 26''. Position 7° 48' n. following.

83. ψ Cassiopeiae. FL. 36. Sub pede sinistro.
Aug. 28, Double. Very unequal. L. pr.; S. r. Distance 1782. 33'' 25''. Position 10° 12' f. following.

84. FL. 47 :: Cassiopeiae. Ex obscurioribus infra pedes.
Aug. 29, Double. The largest of three forming a rectangular triangle on, or near, the place of the 47th Cassiopeiae. A little unequal. L. rw.; S. pr. Distance 50'' 58''. Position 3° 33' n. preceding.

85. ρ (FL. 27a) borealior et praecedens. In dextro brachio.
Aug. 29, Double. About ½ degree n. preceding ρ Andromedae 1782. θ versus. Very unequal. L. rw.; S. r. Distance 30'' 57''. Position 79° 24' n. following.

86. FL. 12 Ursae minoris.
Sept. 4, Treble. Extremely unequal. All three r. The nearest is the smallest. Position some degrees f. following. The farthest also south, but more following.

87. σ Capricorni. FL. 7. Sub oculo dextro.
Sept. 5, Double. Very, or almost extremely unequal. L. r.; 1782. S. d. bluish. Distance 50'' 7''. Position 85° 12' f. following.

88. λ (FL. 15a) Aurigae borealior. In sinistra manu.
Sept. 5, Double. About 3' or 4' n. following the 15th Aurigae. Very unequal. Distance 34'' 15'', mean measure. Position 54° 6' f. preceding.
V. 89. θ Aurigæ. FL. 37. In dextro carpo.
Sept. 5, Double. Excessively unequal. L. fine w.; S red-
1782. dish. Distance with 460, 35'' 18''', narrow measure.
Position 16° 0' n. preceding. A third star in view.

90. γ Aurigæ. FL. 32. In dextri brachii ancone.
Sept. 5, Double. Excessively unequal. L. orange w.; S. r.
1782. Distance 53'' 43'''. Position 61° 48' f. preceding. S.
not visible till after some minute's attention.

91. β (FL. 34a) Aurigæ adjecta. In dextro humero.
Sept. 5, Double. Near ½ degree f. following β, in a line
1782. from the 27th continued through β Aurigæ; a consid-
erable star. Very or extremely unequal. L. pr.; S.
d. Distance 30'' 3'''. Position 45° 6' n. preceding.

92. FL. 3a Arietis borealior.
Sept. 10, Double. Full ½ degree f. following the 3d Arietis,
1782. in a line parallel to α Arietis and δ Ceti; the most south
of two. Equal. Both reddish. Distance 51'' 16'''.
Position 52° 45' n. preceding or f. following.

93. FL. 103am Herculis sequens ad austrum.
Sept. 19, Double. About 1¼ degree f. following the 103d
1782. Herculis, in a line parallel to the 1st and 10th Lyrae;
the nearest of two. Equal, perhaps the following the
smallest. Both r. Distance 47'' 46'''. Position 45°
42' f. following.

94. Duarum FL. 31am Cephei sequentium austrina.
Sept. 30, Double. About ¼ degree n. of the 31st Cephei;
1782. towards α Polaris. Pretty unequal. Both pr. Distance
41'' 40'''. Position 45° 15' f. following.

95. FL. 51 Aquarii. In dextro cubito.
Oct. 2, Double. Excessively unequal. L. rw.; S. d. Dif-
1782. tance Vth Clas. Position n. preceding. Two
other
V. other stars in view; the nearest of them extremely unequal. Position about 80 or 90° f. preceding. The farthest very unequal. Position about 30° f. following.

96. \( \upsilon \) (Fl. 59\textsuperscript{am}) Aquarii sequens ad austrum.

Oct. 2, Double. About \( \frac{1}{2} \) degree f. following \( \upsilon \), in a line parallel to \( \delta \) and \( \epsilon \) Aquarii. Extremely unequal. Distance Vth Class near. Position 15 or 20° f. preceding.

97. Fl. 10 Lacertae.

Oct. 4, Double. Very unequal. L. w.; S. r. Distance 1782. with 278, 52" 34"". Position 38° 45' n. following.

98. Fl. 3 Pegasi.

Oct. 4, Double. Pretty unequal. L. wr.; S. dr. Distance 1782. 34" 43"". Position 82° 48' n. preceding. Besides II. 62. another star in view. Position following.

99. Fl. 33 Pegasi.

Oct. 4, Double. Considerably unequal. L. pr.; S. r. Distance with 278, 45" 3"". Position 89° 12' n. following.

100. Fl. 59 Orionis.

Oct. 4, Double. The following of two. Extremely unequal. L. w.; S. a point requiring some attention to be seen. Distance 37" 15"". Position about 65° f. preceding.

101. \( \upsilon \) (Fl. 36\textsuperscript{am}) Orionis praecedens.

Oct. 4, Double. About \( \frac{3}{4} \) degree preceding \( \upsilon \), nearly in a line parallel to \( \kappa \) and \( \beta \) Orionis; the second from \( \upsilon \). Extremely unequal. L. w.; S. r. Distance 44" 15"". Position about 15° f. following.
V. 102. Fl. 61 Ceti.
Oct. 12, Double. Extremely unequal. L. rw.; S. dr. Distance with $278^\circ$, $37''$ $53'''$. Position $76^\circ$ $21'$ f. preceding. A third star at some distance. A little unequal. Position n. following.

103. Ab (Fl. 18a) Lyrae β versus.
Oct. 24, Double. Full $\frac{1}{2}$ degree f. preceding i, nearly towards β Lyrae. Extremely unequal. L. w.; S. r. Distance with $278^\circ$, $45''$ $32'''$. Position $29^\circ$ $12'$ n. following.

104. ε (Fl. 4a) Sagittae australior et praecedens.
Nov. 6, Double. Full $\frac{1}{2}$ degree f. preceding ε, in a line parallel to γ Sagittae and γ Aquilae; the nearest of two. Extremely unequal. L. pr.; S. d. Distance Vth Clas. Position $16^\circ$ $18'$ f. following.

105. γ (Fl. 14a) Sagittae australior et sequens.
Nov. 6, Double. About $\frac{1}{3}$ degree f. following γ Sagittae, in a line parallel to Sagitta and Delphinus. Considerably unequal. L. pr.; S. r. Distance $38''$ $36'''$. Position $74^\circ$ $15'$ f. following.

106. γ (Fl. 12a) Sagittae borealior et praecedens.
Nov. 6, Double. About $\frac{1}{4}$ degree n. preceding γ Sagittae, towards the 6th Vulpeculae; a considerable star. Equal. Both rw. Distance $38''$ $54'''$. Position $60^\circ$ $42'$ n. preceding or f. following.

107. Fl. 56 Aurigae.
Nov. 6, Double. Considerably unequal. L. w.; S. pr. Distance $52''$ $57'''$. Position $72^\circ$ $36'$ n. following.

108. η (Fl. 13a) Canis majoris borealior.
Nov. 6, Double. About $\frac{1}{4}$ degree n. of η Canis majoris. A little unequal. L. dw.; S. d. Distance $42''$ $53'''$. Position $23^\circ$ $18'$ n. following.

Vol. LXXV.
V. 109. Inter β Cancri et δ Hydræ.

Nov. 6, Double. A large star not in Flamsteed, between 1782. β Cancri and δ Hydrae. Excessively unequal. Distance $35''\ 24''$. Position $55^\circ\ 0'$ n. preceding.

110. FL. 111 Tauri.

Nov. 13, Double. Very unequal. L. rw.; S. r. Distance 1782. $46''\ 42''$. Position $3^\circ\ 48'$ n. preceding.

111. FL. 42a Ursae majoris australior et sequens.

Nov. 20, Double. Full 1 degree f. following the 42d, in a line parallel to the 29th and 48th Ursae majoris; the middle of three forming an arch. Considerably unequal. L. wr.; S. r. Distance $30''\ 40''$. Position $51^\circ\ 27'$ n. following.

112. * Ex obscurioribus μ and ν Geminorum sequentibus.

Dec. 1, Double. Forms almost an isosceles triangle with μ and ν Geminorum. Nearly equal. The preceding pr. the following wr. Distance Vth Class far.

113. * FL. 9am inter et 11am Orionis.

Dec. 7, Treble. About 1½ degree f. preceding the 11th Orionis, towards ι Tauri. The two largest considerably unequal. L. w.; S. pr. Distance $37''\ 51''$. Position $33^\circ\ 54'$ n. preceding. The third farther off and smaller. S. r. Position n. following.

114. FL. 103 Tauri.

Dec. 7, Double. Excessively unequal. L. rw.; S. d. Distance with $278$ and $625$, $30''\ 2''$, mean measure. Position $72^\circ\ 24'$.

115. ο Tauri. FL. 114.

Dec. 7, Double. Excessively unequal. L. w.; S. a point. Distance $5''\ 34''$. Position $77^\circ\ 54'$ f. preceding.
V. Two other small stars following, and a third to the north.

116. Fl. 41 Arietis.
Dec. 23, Treble. The two nearest excessively unequal. L. w.; 1782. S. a point. Distance with $278, 39'' 20''$. Position $80^\circ 48'$ f. preceding. For the distance of the farthest, see VI. 5. *.

117. ζ (Fl. 58am) Arietis praecedens ad boream.
Dec. 23, Double. About $1\frac{3}{4}$ n. preceding ζ, towards the 41st 1782. Arietis; the following of four forming an arch. Very unequal. Both dr. Distance $34'' 48''$. Position $47^\circ 33'$ n. preceding.

118. ε (Fl. 46a) Orionis borealior et praecedens.
Dec. 28, Double. The most n. of three preceding ε Orionis, 1782. towards μ Tauri. More north is another set of three; care must be taken not to mistake one of them for this. Extremely unequal. L. rw.; S. d. Distance Vth Class. Position $13^\circ 6'$ f. preceding. Two more following, excessively unequal; one about $1'$, the other about $1\frac{1}{2}$ minute.

119. ε (Fl. 46a) Orionis australior et praecedens.
Dec. 28, Double. Full $\frac{3}{4}$ degree f. preceding ε, in a line parallel to ε Orionis, and b Eridani; the smallest and most f. of two. Very unequal. L. w.; S. r. Distance $30'' 12''$; a little inaccurate. Position $21^\circ 33'$ f. preceding. A third star 2 or $3^\circ$ f. following.

* The star VI. 5. in the place referred to is called Flamsteed's 35th Arietis. With so many stars and measures it was hardly possible to avoid several errors, I have therefore now added to the errata already given at the end of vol. LXXII. and LXXIII. of the Phil. Trans. some others, that have since been detected by a careful review of the double stars, and believe that no more will be found.
V. 120. Fl. 15 Hydræ.
Dec. 28, Double. Extremely unequal. L. w.; S. r. Distance 43" 2"".
1782. Position about 70° n. preceding.

121. e Comæ Berenices. Fl. 12.
Jan. 1, Double. Considerably unequal. L. rw.; S. pr.
1783. Distance 58" 55"".
Position about 77° f. following.

122. Fl. 44 Bootis australior et praecedens.
Jan. 8, Double. Near ½ degree f. preceding the 44th,
1783. towards the 38th Bootis. Very unequal. L. bw.; S. pr.
Distance 34" 21"".
Position 67° 6' f. preceding.

123. * In Andromedæ pectore.
Jan. 8, Double. Equal. Both rw. or pr. Distance 45" 1"".
1783. Position 32° 24' f. preceding. Its place, as determined
in 1777 by C. Mayer, is AR o° 34' 33" in time, and
29° 45' 3" declination north.

124. g (Fl. 2am) Centauri sequens ad austrum.
Jan. 31, Double. About 1½ degree f. following g Centauri,
1783. in a line parallel to γ Serpentis and θ Centauri; the
most f. of two. Considerably unequal. Distance 54" 1"";
too low for accuracy.

125. Fl. 46am Bootis sequens ad boream.
Feb. 3, Double. Near 2 degrees n. following the 46th, in a
line parallel to ζ Bootis and β Coronæ; the third star
about that direction. Considerably unequal. L. r.;
S. darker r. Distance 33° 53'.
Position 37° 33' f. preceding.

126. r (Fl. 5am) Herculis praecedens ad austrum.
Feb. 3, Double. Near ½ degree f. preceding r Herculis, in
a line parallel to γ and δ Serpentis; a small star. A
little unequal. Both pr. Distance 37" 51""; rather
full measure. Position 52° 6' f. preceding.
V. 127. (FL. 41am) Herculis præcedens ad boream.

Feb. 5, Double. About \( \frac{3}{4} \) degree n. preceding the 41st Herculis, in a line parallel to \( \alpha \) Serpentarii and \( \beta \) Herculis. Pretty unequal. Both r. Distance 48'' 40''. Position 19° 45' n. preceding.

128. \( f \) (FL. 68am) Virginis sequens.

Feb. 7, Double. About \( \frac{1}{2} \) degree following \( f \) Virginis, in a line parallel to Spica and \( \beta \) Librae. A little unequal. L. pr.; S. r. Distance 41'' 58''.

129. \( f \) (FL. 25am) Virginis sequens ad boream.

Feb. 7, Double. About \( \frac{1}{2} \) degree n. following \( f \), in a line parallel to \( \gamma \) and \( \epsilon \) Virginis; a large star. Very unequal. L. r.; S. dark r. Distance 46'' 42''. Position 6 or 7° f. following. A double star of the Vth Class in view, preceding.

130. FL. 35 Comæ Berenices.

Feb. 26, Double. Very unequal. L. r.; S. d. Distance 1783. 31'' 17''. Position 36° 51' f. following.

131. FL. 24am Librae sequens ad boream.

Mar. 1, Double. About \( \frac{1}{2} \) degree n. following the 24th Librae, in a line parallel to \( \pi \) and \( \beta \) Scorpii. Considerably unequal. L. rw.; S. r. Distance 47'' 46''.

132. FL. 29am inter et 30am Librae.

Mar. 1, Double. Of two between the 29th and 30th Librae that nearest to the 30th. Very unequal. L. w.; S. d. Distance 39'' 59''; very inaccurate.

133. FL. 60 Herculis.

Mar. 7, Double. Extremely unequal. L. w.; S. d. Distance 48'' 40''. Position 37° 0' n. preceding.
V. 134. ψ (Fl. 4am) Ophiuchi præcedens ad austrum.
Mar. 24, Double. About 1 degree preceding and a little f. of
1783. ψ, in a line parallel to ψ Ophiuchi and ω Scorpii; the
farthest of two in the base of a triangle. Equal. Dis-
tance 45'' 47''.

135. Ad Fl. 49am Camelopardali.
April 4, Double. The smallest and most f. of two that are
1783. about 20' asunder. A little unequal. Both r. Dis-
tance with 278, 38'' 18'''. Position 85° 0' f. preceding.

136. θ (Fl. 65a) Aquilæ borealior.
Sept. 12, Double. About ½ degree n. of θ, in a line parallel
1783. to η and β Aquilæ; a considerable star. Considerably
unequal. L. pr.; S. r.; Distance with 278, 47'' 5'''.
Position 65° 48' f. preceding.

137. χ (Fl. 17a) Cygni borealior.
Sept. 22, Double. About 1½ degree n. of χ, towards δ Cygni;
1783. a considerable star. Considerably unequal. L. garnet;
S. r. Distance with 278, 35'' 1'''. Position 57° 3' n.
following.

SIXTH CLASS OF DOUBLE STARS.

VI. 67. η Orionis. Fl. 28. In extremo ensis manubrio.
Dec. 27, Double. Excessively unequal. L. w.; S. d. Dis-
1781. tance 1' 50'' 57'''. Position 35° 12' n. following.
VI. 68. η (FL. 28°) Orionis australior.

Dec. 27, Double. About ½ degree s. of, and a little following η, in a line nearly parallel to δ and θ Orionis. Very unequal. L. r.; S. d. Distance 2′ 0″ 11‴. Position 7° 54′ n. preceding.

69. FL. 14 Arietis. Supra caput.

Dec. 27, Double. Very unequal. L. pr.; S. dr. Distance 1′ 29″ 28‴. Position 11° 12′ n. preceding.

70. o Geminorum. FL. 70. Supra caput prioris IIi.

Dec. 27, Treble. Or two small stars in view; the nearest about a little more than 1 minute; the other not much farther.

71. τ Hydræ. FL. 31. Trium in flexu colli australissima.

Jan. 20, Double. Pretty unequal. L. w. inclining to rose colour. S. pr. Distance 1′ 1″ 40‴. Position 88° 36′ n. preceding.

72. Ad FL. 68am Orionis. In fusse.

Jan. 30, Double. The most n. of two that are 1 degree asunder. Very unequal. L. w.; S. dr. Distance with 278, 1′ 12″ 50‴. Position 41° 0′ f. preceding.

73. ε Geminorum. FL. 27. In boreali genu praecedentis IIi.

Feb. 2, 1782. Double. L. w. Distance 1′ 50″ 30‴.

74. FL. 51 Geminorum.

Feb. 2, Has two very obscure stars in view. L. r.; S. r. S. r. 1782. The nearest about 1½, the next 2 minutes. Position of both about 40 or 50° n. following.

75. ω Cancri. FL. 4. Ad primum borealem forficem.

Feb. 2, Has a very obscure star in view. L. pr. Distance about 1¼ minute. Position about 30° n. preceding. A third about 2′. Position more north.
VI. 76. o Leonis. Fl. 14.
Feb. 2, Double. Extremely unequal. L. rw.; S. r. Distance 1' 3'' 29''. Position 49° 36' n. following.

77. τ Virginis. Fl. 93.
Feb. 4, Double. Very unequal. L. w.; S. dr. Distance 1' 8'' 22''.

78. ζ (Fl. 16am) Cancri sequitur.
Feb. 8, Double. About ½ degree following ζ Cancri, towards η Leonis. Extremely unequal. Distance 1' 3'' 47''.

79. φ Leonis. Fl. 74.
Feb. 9, Double. Very unequal. L. w.; S. pr. Distance 1' 38'' 35''. Position about 10 or 12° n. preceding.

80. Fl. 93 Leonis.
Feb. 9, Double. Very unequal. L. w.; S. db. Distance 1' 10'' 13''.

81. Fl. 27 Virginis. In ala dextra.
Feb. 9, Double. Extremely unequal. L. w. Distance 1' 28'' 48''.

82. Fl. 31 Monocerotis. In media cauda.
Feb. 9, Double. Very unequal. L. rw.; S. db. Distance 1' 10'' 13''. Position 40° 0' n. preceding.

83. Prope Fl. 1am Orionis.
Feb. 9, Double. A few minutes f. following the 1st, towards the belt of Orion. Considerably unequal. L. pr.; S. r. Distance 1' 20'' 58''. Position 88° 15' n. following.

84. Fl. 14 Canis minoris.
Feb. 9, Treble. The nearest extremely unequal. L. rw.; S. d. Distance 1' 5'' 28''. Position 26° 24' n. following.
VI. lowing. The third forms an angle, a little larger than a rectangle, with the other two. Position f. following.

85. Fl. 27 Hydræ.
Feb. 9. Double. Very unequal. L. rw.; S. pr. Distance 1782. VIth Clas far. Position about 60° f. preceding.

86. Prima ad σ Cancri. Fl. 51.
March 5, Double. Extremely unequal. L. w.; S. d. Position n. following.

87. Tertia ad σ Cancri. Fl. 64.
March 5, Double. Very unequal. L. rw.; S. dr. Distance 1782. 1′ 25″ 45″″. Position 25° 12′ n. preceding.

88. β Aurigæ. Fl. 34. In dextro humero.
March 5, Double. Extremely or excessively unequal. L. fine bluish w.; S. d. Distance 2′ 49″ 6″″. Position 54° 12′ n. following. A third farther off. Very unequal. About 40 or 50° n. following.

89. Fl. 6æ Bootis adjecta.
Mar. 12, Double. Just following the 6th Bootis. A little unequal. L. r.; S. deeper r. Distance 1′ 19″ 39″″. Position 58° 6′ f. preceding.

90. Fl. 61 Virginis.
Apr. 3, Double. Very unequal. L. w.; S. d. Distance 1782. 1′ 13″ 15″″. Position about 75° n. preceding.

91. Prope γ (Fl. 24am) Geminorum.
Apr. 15, Double. Three or four minutes n. of γ Geminorum. Considerably unequal. Both small; too obscure for measures with 7-feet; my 20-feet shews a third star between them with 12 inches aperture.
VI. 92. ξ (Fl. 1st) Capricorni borealior.

June 14, Double. About \( \frac{1}{3} \) degree n. of ξ Capricorni. Very unequal. Both r. Distance 1' 2" 16"''. Position 2° 3' f. preceding.

93. ρ Coronæ borealis. Fl. 15. Ad summum.

July 18, Double. Very unequal. L. w.; S. d. Distance 1782. 1' 27" 44"'; a little inaccurate. Position 54° 27' f. following.

94. λ Coronæ borealis. Fl. 12.

July 18, Double. Extremely unequal. L. w.; S. r. Distance 1782. 1' 35" 14'''. Position 33° 12' n. following.

95. η Bootis. Fl. 8. Trium in sinistro crure borea.

Aug. 3, Double. Extremely unequal. L. w. inclining to orange; S. r. Distance about 1½ minute. Position about 25 or 30° f. following.

96. ζ Persei. Fl. 44. In pede sinistro.

Aug. 25, Treble. The nearest extremely unequal. L. w.; S. r. Distance 1782. 1' 11" 26'''. Position 66° 36' f. preceding. The farthest very unequal. S. r. about 1½ minute. 70 or 75° f. preceding.

97. Secunda ad τ Aquarii. Fl. 71. In dextro crure.

Aug. 28, Double. Very unequal. L. r.; S. d. Distance 1782. 2' 3" 36''', mean measure. Position 18° 30' n. preceding.

98. Fl. 46am Tauri sequens ad austrum.

Sept. 7, Double. About 1½ degree f. following the 46th, nearly in a line parallel to the 38th Tauri and the 42d Eridani. A little unequal. L. pr.; S. r. Distance 1' 2" 34'''. Position 43° 48' n. preceding. A double star of the Vth Class in view, following within 3'.

Equal.
VI. Equal. Both small and r. Almost similarly situated with the above, but position more n. preceding.

99. m Persei. Fl. 57. In dextri pedis talo.
Sept. 7, Double. Pretty unequal. L. r.; S. rw. Distance 1' 36'' 27''. Position 71° 51' s. preceding.

100. (Fl. 32am) Cephei sequens.
Sept. 30, Double. About 1¼ degree n. following ι, nearly towards γ Cephei. A little unequal. Both pr. Distance 1' 1'' 54''. Position 8° 9' n. preceding.

101. δ Tauri. Fl. 68.

Oct. 31, Has two stars in view. The nearest excessively unequal. L. w.; S. d. Distance with 278, 1' 3'' 18''. Position 35° 24' s. preceding. The farthest extremely unequal. S. r. About 1½ minute. Position about 50° n. preceding.

102. Fl. 5 Lyncis.
Nov. 13, Double. The largest of a small triangle. Very unequal. L. r.; S. garnet. Distance 1' 28'' 20''. Position 2° o' n. preceding.

103. ε Pegasi. Fl. 8.
Nov. 20, Double. Very unequal. L. pr.; S. dr. Distance 1' 30'' 56''. Position 52° 45' n. preceding.

104. ζ Bootis. Fl. 30. In dextro calcaneo.
Nov. 29, Has a very obscure star in view. Extremely unequal. L. w. inclining to r.; S. d. Distance about 1½ minute. Position almost directly preceding.

105. Fl. 105 Tauri.
Dec. 7, Double. Very unequal. L. pr.; S. r. Distance 1' 41'' 29''. Position 18° o' l. preceding.
VI. 106. b Eridani. FL. 62.
Dec. 7, Double. Considerably unequal. L. w.; S. pr.
1782. Distance 1' 0'' 26''. Position 15° 9' n. following.

107. FL. 31 Monocerotis australior et praecedens.
Dec. 21, Double. About 1/4 degree s. of, and a little pre-
1782. ceding the 31st Monocerotis, in a line parallel to ξ Hydræ and the 31st Monocerotis; the most south of two.
Considerably unequal. L. r.; S. deeper r. Distance about 1/2 minute. Position 50 or 60° s. following.

108. θ (FL. 22) Hydræ borealior et praecedens.
Dec. 28, Double. About 1/2 degree n. of, and a little pre-
1782. ceding θ, nearly in a line parallel to α and θ Hydræ.
Very unequal. L. r.; S. blackish r. VIth Class far.
Position 1 or 2° n. preceding. A third star preceding.

109. FL. 22 an 26 Cancri incertum.
Dec. 29, Double. One of the two being lost *, it does not
1782. appear which is the remaining star. Very unequal.
L. r.; S. dr.

110. Telecopica ad o Ceti.
Jan. 2, Double. Looking for o Ceti, which was invisible to
1783. the naked eye, I mistook this for it. Pretty unequal.
L. rw. of about the eighth magnitude; S. r. Distance
1' 20'' 52''. Position 33° 42'.

111. α Hydræ. FL. 30. Duarum contiguarum lucidior.
Jan. 8, Has two stars within about 2 minutes; the nearest
1783. excessively unequal; the farthest extremely unequal.
Both s. following.

112. FL. 13 Bootis.
Jan. 8, Double. Extremely unequal. L. r.; S. dr. Dis-
1783. tance 1' 17'' 58''. Position 7° 24' n. preceding.

* See Phil. Trans. vol. LXXIII. p. 252.
VI. 113. Fl. 4 Virginis.
Jan. 8. Double. Extremely unequal. L. wr.; S. dr. Distance 2' 25'' 44'''; too obscure for accuracy.

114. Fl. 69am Orionis praecedens ad austrum.
Jan. 9, Double. About ½ degree f. preceding the 69th, nearly towards λ Orionis. Considerably unequal. L. pr.; S. d. Distance 1' 30'' 38'''. Position 22° 6' f. following.

115. Fl. 21am Crateris sequens ad austrum.
Jan. 10, Double. About 2½ degree f. following the 21st, in a line parallel to the 12th Crateris and 4th Corvi. Very unequal. L. w.; S. r. Position 12° 12' n. following.

116. Fl. 43 Herculis.
Jan. 10, Double. Very unequal. L. inclining to garnet; S. r. Distance 1' 14'' 37'''. Position 38° 48' f. preceding.

117. Fl. 12a Libræ borealior et praecedens.
Jan. 10, Double. About 1¼ degree n. preceding the 12th Libræ, towards Spica. Very unequal. L. rw.; S. r. Position about 40° f. preceding.

118. Fl. 30 Monocerotis.
Feb. 12, Double. Very or extremely unequal. Distance 3' 30'' 54'''.

119. ε (Fl. 18a) Piscis austrini australior et praecedens.
July 28, Double. About 1¼ degree f. of, and a little preceding ε Piscis austrini, in a line from δ Aquarii continued

* On account of the change in the magnitudes of the 1st and 2d Hydræ, this small star may be of use to ascertain whether the 30th Monocerotis, which is situated between them, has any considerable proper motion. See Phil. Trans. vol. LXXIII. p. 255.
Mr. Herschel's Catalogue of Double Stars.

through ε Piscis. Pretty unequal. L. dpr. S. dr. Distance 1° 26'' 58'''. Position 67° 46' f. following.

120. FL. 43am Sagittarii sequens ad austrum.

Aug. 16, Double. Near 1 degree f. following the 43d, in a line parallel to ξ and o Sagittarii; a considerable star. Very unequal. Both dr. Distance with 278, 1° 14'' 9''. Position 37° 0' n. preceding.

121. FL. 12 Lacertae.

Aug. 18, Double. Very unequal. L. w.; S. r. Distance with 278, 1° 0'' 10''. Position 73° 0' n. following.

Add the following errata of the Catalogue of Double Stars in vol. LXXII. to those already noticed at the end of the LXXIId and LXXIIIId volumes.

| Page | Line | For | Read |
|------|------|-----|------|
| 133  | 22   | 25. | 25*. |
| 140  | 3    | 19'' 14''' | 19'' 26''' |
| 145  | 26   | 35'' 48''' | 36'' 9''' |
| 153  | 7    | π Capricorni. FL. 10. | ε Capricorni. FL. 11. |
| 153  | 11   | 33° 42' | 61° 23' |
| 156  | 4    | FL. 5. | FL. 4. |
