# Back Matter

**Author(s):** Anonymous  
**Year:** 1853  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London  
**Volume:** 143  
**Pages:** 22 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-108574  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/108574>  

---

INDEX

TO THE

PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS

FOR THE YEAR 1853.

A.

Adams (J. C., Esq.). On the Secular Variation of the Moon's Mean Motion, 397.
Agathocles, eclipse of, 187.
Airy (G. B., Esq., Astron. Roy.). On the Eclipses of Agathocles, Thales and Xerxes, 179.
Allman (Dr. James). On the Anatomy and Physiology of Cordylophora, a contribution to our history of Tubularian Zoophytes, 367.
Amphibia, on the impregnation of the ovum of, 233. 1. Comparison of the vitality of the ovum and the spermatozoon, 234. 2. Evolution of vitality in the spermatozoon and ovum, 237. 3. Vitality of the ovum, 239. 4. Endosmosis of the egg in reference to its vitality, 242. 5. Quantity of spermatozoa essential to fecundation, 245. 6. Tests of fecundation, 246. 7. Partial or incomplete fecundation, 247. 8. Deficiency of fecundatory influence, ibid. 9. Portion of the yolk most susceptible of fecundation, 251. 10. Excess of fecundatory influence, 253. 11. Deficiency and excess of fecundatory influence compared, 256. 12. The motion of the spermatozoon in relation to its function, 259. 13. Penetration by the spermatozoon in effecting fecundation, 266. 14. Nature of the influence of the spermatozoon, 281.
Archetype of the Cephalous Mollusca, 44.
Atlanta, anatomy of, 36.

B.

Bakerian Lecture, 549.
Balloon ascents, meteorological observations in, 312.
Birds, structure and development of the liver in, 11.
Bone, on the structure and development of, 109. Haversian and other canals of bone, 110. Laminæ, 112. Lacunæ, 115. Haversian systems, 117. Ossified cartilage of joints, 118. Ossified lacunal cells, 119. Bone tissue, 120. Development of bone, 123. Growth of bone, 130.
C.

Calculi, urinary, on the dissolution of, 201.
Cephalous Mollusca, anatomy and morphology of, 29. Archetype of, 44.
Clarke (J. Lockhart, Esq.). On certain Functions of the Spinal Chord, with further investigations into its Structure, 347.
Cœnosarc, definition of the term, 368; description of, in Cordylophora, 371.
Common measure, on the quotients resulting from the process of continuous division ordinarily applied to two algebraical functions in order to determine their greatest, 467.
Continued fraction, on the complete and simplified residues generated in the process of developing an ordinary rational algebraical fraction under the form of \(a\), 415.
———, improper, on the quotients arising from the expansion of \(\frac{f'x}{fx}\) under the form of, 469.
———, on an unlimited arbitrary algebraical rational integral, 535.
Cordylophora, on the anatomy and physiology of, 367.

D.

Decomposition of rubian, products of, 67.
De Morgan (Campbell, Esq.) and John Tomes, Esq. Observations on the Structure and Development of Bone, 109.
Development of bone, 123.

E.

Eclipses of Agathocles, Thales, and Xerxes, on the, 179. Section I. On the elements of the lunar table, 179. Section II. Method of computation adopted by the author, 185. Section III. Eclipse of Agathocles, 187. Section IV. Eclipse of Thales as recorded by Herodotus, 191. Eclipse recorded by the Persian historians, 197. Eclipse of Xerxes, 198.
Ectoderm, definition of the term, 368; description of, in Cordylophora, ibid.
Embryology of Cordylophora, 373.
Endoderm, definition of, 368; description of, in Cordylophora, 370.
Equations having equal roots, a theorem concerning, 467.
———, algebraical, on the theory of intercalations of the real roots of two, 486.
Equation, on a new method of finding superior and inferior limits to the real roots of an, 490. Development of the method, 496.

F.

Fecundation, tests of, in the Amphibia, 246; partial or incomplete, 251. Deficiency and excess of fecundatory influence, 247, 253, 256.
Firoloides, anatomy of, 30.
Fishes, structure and development of the liver in, 3, 6.
Fluids in motion, thermal effects of, 357.

H.

Heat, on the transmission of, through organic substances, 217.
Heteropoda, anatomy and morphology of, 30.
Hobarton, on the influence of the moon on the magnetic declination at, 557.

Huxley (Thomas Henry, Esq.). On the Morphology of the Cephalous Mollusca, as illustrated by the Anatomy of certain Heteropoda and Pteropoda collected during the Voyage of Her Majesty's Ship Rattlesnake in 1846-50, 29.

Hygrometric condition of the air, variation of, as observed in balloon ascents, 336.

I.

Impregnation of the ovum in the Amphibia, on the, 233.

Intercalations, on the theory of, 480; applied to algebraical equations, 486; as applicable to two functions of the same degree, 510.

J.

Jones (C. Handfield, M.D.). Further Inquiries as to the Structure, Development, and Function of the Liver, I.

Jones (Henry Bence, M.D.). On the Dissolution of Urinary Calculi in dilute Saline Fluids, at the Temperature of the Body, by the aid of Electricity, 201.

Joule (J. P., Esq.) and Thomson (Wm., M.A.). On the Thermal Effects of Fluids in Motion, 357.

L.

Light, on the change of refrangibility of, 385; degraded, degradation of, 387; fluorescence of, ibid.

Liver, further inquiries as to its structure, development, and function, 1. Structure in Fishes, 3. Development in Fishes, 6. Structure in Reptiles, 8. Development in Reptiles, 10. Structure and development in Birds, 11; in Mammalia, 14. Function of the parenchyma, 19.

M.

Magnetic declination, on the influence of the moon on the, at Toronto, St. Helena, and Hobarton, 549.

Magnetic disturbances, on periodic laws in, 165.

Mammalia, structure and development of the liver in, 14.

Meteorological observations in four balloon ascents, account of, 312.

Molecular influences, on. Part I. Transmission of heat through organic structures, 217. Construction of the instrument used in the investigation, 218. Table of substances submitted to experiment, and results, 223.

Mollusca, the Cephalous, anatomy of, 29. Anatomy of Firolöides, 30; of Atalanta, 36. Anatomy of Pteropoda, 39. The archetype of the Cephalous Mollusca, 44.

Moon's mean motion, on the secular variation of the, 397.

Muscular system in Cordylophora and other Tubulariadae, 372.

N.

Nerves, spinal, on the posterior and anterior roots of, 348, 350.

Nesodon, description of species of, with remarks on the primary group (Toxodontia) to which that genus is referable, 291; generic characters of, 299.
INDEX.

*Nesodon imbricatus*, 301.
—*magnus*, 308.
—*ovinus*, 291.
—*Sulivani*, 304.

NEWPORT (GEORGE, Esq.). On the Impregnation of the Ovum in the Amphibia (Second Series, revised), and on the Direct Agency of the Spermatozoon, 233.

O.

Observations, meteorological, made in four balloon ascents, 312.
Organic substances, of the transmission of heat through, 217.
Ova and ovigerous capsules in Cordylophora, 373.
Ovum, impregnation in the Amphibia, 233.

OWEN (Professor RICHARD). Description of some Species of the extinct Genus *Nesodon*, with Remarks on the primary Group (*Toxodontia*) of Hoofed Quadrupeds to which that Genus is referable, 291.
Oxalate of lime calculi, on the solution of, 205.

P.

Parenchyma of the liver, function of, 19.
Periodical and non-periodic variations of the temperature at Toronto, 141.
Periodical laws in the larger magnetic disturbances, 165.
Phosphatic calculi, on the solution of, 211.
Platinocyanides, optical properties of, 395.
Polypary, definition of the term, 368; description of, in Cordylophora, 369.
Polype, definition of the term, 368.
Pteropoda, anatomy of, 39.

R.

Refrangibility of light, on the change of, 385. Method of observing by absorbing media, *ibid.*; by means of a prism, 391. Examples of these methods of observation, 393. Comparison of their relative advantages, 394. Platinocyanides, 395.
Reptiles, structure and development of the liver in, 8, 10.
Rubian, and its products of decomposition, Part II., 67. Action of alkalies and alkaline earths on, 67. Rubiadine, 72. Action of ferments on rubian, 74. Rubiafine, 80. Rubiacine and rubiacic acid, 81. Rubiagine, 87. Rubiadipine, 89.

S.

SABINE (Colonel EDWARD, R.A., V.P. and Treas. R.S.). On the Periodic and Non-periodic Variations of the Temperature at Toronto in Canada, from 1841 to 1852 inclusive, 141.
—On the Influence of the Moon on the Magnetic Declination at Toronto, St. Helena, and Hobarton, 549.
SCHUNCK (EDWARD, Esq.). On Rubian and its Products of Decomposition, Part II., 67.
Spermatozoa, capsules containing, in Cordylophora, 375.

Spermatozoon, on the agency of, in impregnation, in the Amphibia, 233; vitality of, 234, 235; quantity of, necessary for fecundation, 245; motion of, 259; and penetration of, 266. Nature of its influence, 281.

Spinal chord, on certain functions of, with investigations into its structure, 347. Of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, 348. Of the anterior roots, 350. On the means by which impressions received by the chord are transmitted to the brain, 352.

St. Helena, on the influence of the moon on the magnetic declination at, 555.

Stokes (Professor G. G., Esq.). On the Change of Refrangibility of Light, No. II., 385.

Structure and development of bone, 109.

Sturm's theorem, on formulae relating to, 457. Further formulae connected with, 480.

Sylvester (J. J., Esq.). On a Theory of the Syzygetic relations of two rational functions, comprising an application of the Theory of Sturm's Functions, and that of the greatest Algebraical Common Measure, 407.

Syzygetic relations of two rational integral functions, on a theory of the, comprising an application to the theory of Sturm's Functions, and that of the greatest algebraical Common Measure, 407. Introduction, ibid. Section I. On the complete and simplified residues generated in the process of developing under the form of a continued fraction, an ordinary rational algebraical fraction, 415. Section II. On the general solution in terms of the roots of any two given algebraical functions of $x$ of the syzygetic equation, which connects them with a third function, whose degree in $x$ is given, but whose form is to be determined, 433. Section III. On the application of the theorems in the preceding section to the expression in terms of the roots of any primitive function of Sturm's auxiliary functions, and the other functions which connect these with the primitive function and its first differential derivative, 456. Supplement to Section III. On the quotients resulting from the process of continuous division ordinarily applied to two algebraical functions in order to determine the greatest common measure, 467. Section IV. On some further formulae connected with Sturm's theorem, and on the theory of intercalations whereof that theorem may be treated as a corollary, 480. Supplement to Section IV. Development of the method of assigning a superior and inferior limit to the roots of any algebraical equation, 496. Section V. On the theory of intercalations as applicable to two functions of the same degree, and on the formal properties of the Bezoutian with reference to the method of invariants, 510. General and concluding Supplement, 535. Glossary of new or unusual terms, &c., 543. Table of Contents, 548.

T.

Temperature, periodic and non-periodic variations of, at Toronto, 141. Epochs of the maxima and minima at Toronto compared with those at several places on the continent of Europe, 148.

Temperature, variation of, with height, as observed in balloon ascents, 332.

Thales, eclipse of, 191.

Thermal effects of fluids in motion, 357.

Thomson (Wm., M.A.) and Joule (J. P., Esq.). On the Thermal Effects of Fluids in Motion, 357.

Tomes (John, Esq.) and Campbell De Morgan, Esq. Observations on the Structure and Development of Bone, 109.

Toronto, on the influence of the moon on the magnetic declination at, 550.
INDEX.

*Tubularian zoophytes*, on the anatomy of, 367.

*Tyndall (John, Esq.).* On Molecular Influences. Part I. Transmission of Heat through Organic Structures, 217.

U.

*Uric acid calculi,* on the solution of, 202.

*Urinary calculi,* on the dissolution of, in dilute saline fluids, at the temperature of the body, by the aid of electricity, 201. Section I. On the solution of uric acid calculi, *ibid.* Section II. On the solution of oxalate of lime calculi, 205. Section III. On the solution of phosphatic calculi and of carbonate of lime, 211. Appendix to the paper, 214.

V.

*Variations, periodic and non-periodic, of the temperature at Toronto,* 141.

W.

*Welsh (John, Esq.).* An Account of Meteorological Observations in Four Balloon Ascents, made under the direction of the Kew Observatory Committee of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, 312.

*Wood,* transmission of heat through different kinds of, 223.

X.

*Xerxes,* eclipse of, 198.

Y.

*Younghusband (Capt. C. W., R.A.).* On Periodic Laws in the larger Magnetic Disturbances, 165.

Z.

*Zoophytes, tubularian,* on the anatomy of, 367.

LONDON:

PRINTED BY TAYLOR AND FRANCIS, RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
PRESENTS

RECEIVED BY

THE ROYAL SOCIETY,

WITH THE

NAMES OF THE DONORS.

From November 1852 to June 1853.

PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES.

Abbeville:—Mémoires de la Société d'Emulation 1849–1852. 8vo. Abbeville 1852.

Amsterdam:—

Verhandelingen der eerste Klasse van het Koninklijk-Nederlandsche Instituut. Derde Reeks. 5de Deel. 4to. Amsterdam 1852.

Tijdschrift. Afl. 1, 2, 3. Deel 5. 8vo. 1851–1852.

Jaarboek enz. voor 1851. 8vo.

Berlin:—

Abhandlungen der Akademie der Wissenschaften. Aus dem Jahre 1850, and aus dem Jahre 1851. 4to. Berlin 1852.

Monatsbericht. May to Dec. 1852. Jan. to Apr. 1853.

Die Fortschritte der Physik im Jahre 1848. 4er Jahrgang. 8vo. Berlin 1852.

Bologna:—

Memorie della Accademia delle Scienze. Tomo 2. 4to. Bologna 1850.

Specimina Zoologica Mosambicana cura J. J. Bianconi. Fasc. IV. et V. 4to. Bononiae 1850.

Bombay:—

Transactions of the Medical and Physical Society. Vols. I. to X. 1849–1850. 8vo.

General Index to ditto. 8vo. Bombay. 1852.

Transactions of the Bombay Geographical Society. Vol. X. 8vo. Bombay 1852.

Breslau:—

Novorum Actorum Academiæ Cæsareæ Leopoldino-Carolineæ Naturæ Curiosorum. Vol. XXII. Supplement, and Vol. XXIII. 4to. Vratislaviae et Bonnae 1852.

MDCCCLIII.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Breslau:
Vorwort zum vier-und-zwanzigsten Bande der Verhandlungen der Kais. Leopoldinisch-Carolinischen Akademie der Naturforscher. Besondere Ausgabe. 4to. Breslau und Bonn 1853.
Neun und zwanzigster Jahres-Bericht der Schlesischen Gesellschaft für vaterländische Kultur. 4to. Breslau 1851.

Brussels:
Mémoires de l'Académie Royale des Sciences, &c., de Belgique. Tom. XXVI. 4to. Bruxelles 1851.
Mémoires Couronnés et Memoires des Savants Etrangers. Tom. XXIV. 4to. Bruxelles 1852.
Bulletins: Tom. XVII. Part 2. Tom. XVIII. et XIX. 8vo. 1851–52.
Annuaire: 1851–52. 8vo.
Mémoires Couronnés, Tom. V. 8vo. Brux. 1852.
Bulletins de l'Académie Royale de Belgique. Part 3. Tom. XIX. 1852.
Annuaire de l'Académie Royale. 19ème année, 1853.
Annales de l'Observatoire Royal de Bruxelles. Part 1. Tom. VIII.
Annuaire de l'Observatoire Royal, 1853, 20ème année.
Rapport adressé à M. le Ministre de l'Intérieur, sur l'état et les travaux de l'Observatoire Royal, par A. Quetelet. 8vo. 1852.
Notice sur l'Hiver de 1852 à 1853, par A. Quetelet. 8vo.
Sur l'Astronome Van Langren, Notes, par J. C. Rouzeau. 8vo.

Calcutta:—Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal. No. 7. 1852.
Cambridge (U.S.):—Memoirs of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Vol. IV. Part 2. 4to. Cambridge and Boston 1850.
Cherbourg:—Mémoires de la Société des Sciences Naturelles de Cherbourg. Tom. I. Liv. 1. 8vo. Cherbourg 1852.
Copenhagen:—Det Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskabs Skrifter. Femte Række. Andet Bind. 4to. Kjøbenhavn 1851.
Oversigt over det...Forhandlinger, 1849–1851 und 1852. 8vo.
Cornwall:—Thirty-eighth Annual Report of the Geological Society of Cornwall. 8vo. Penzance 1851.
Dublin:
Royal Irish Academy. Transactions, Parts 3 and 4. Vol. XXII. 4to.
Royal Irish Academy. Proceedings. Parts 1 and 2. Vol. V. 8vo.
Geological Society. Journal. Part 2. Vol. V. 8vo. Dublin 1852.
Edinburgh:
Royal Society. Transactions. Part 3. Vol. XX.
Proceedings. Session 1851–52.
Royal Scottish Society of Arts. Transactions. Part 1. Vol. IV. 8vo. Edin. 1852.
Transactions of the Architectural Institute of Scotland. Parts 4 to 13. 8vo. Edin. 1852.
Illustrations of an Essay on Mural Decoration. Eight Plates.
Geneva:—Mémoires de la Société de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle de Genève. Part 1. Tom. XIII. 1852.
Glasgow:—Proceedings of the Philosophical Society. No. 4. Vol. III.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Göttingen:—Nachrichten ... der Königl. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften zu Göttingen, vom Jahre 1852.

Haarlem:—Historische en Letterkundige Verhandelingen van de Hollandsche Maatschappij der Wetenschappen de Haarlem. Eerste Deel. 4to. Haarlem 1851.

Lausanne:—

Bulletin de la Société Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles. Nos. 23 and 24. 1851.

Observations Météorologiques faites à Morges, Dec. 1850 to Sept. 1851.

Leipzig:—Berichte über die Verhandlungen der Königlich Sächsischen Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Parts 1 and 2. 8vo. Leipzig 1853.

London:—

British Archaeological Association Journal. Nos. 21 to 32. 1850–52. 8vo.

British Association.—Report of the Twenty-first Meeting. 8vo. London 1852.

Chemical Society. Quarterly Journal. Nos. 2, 3, 4. Vol. V. Part 1. Vol. VI.

Entomological Society. Transactions. Parts 1, 2, 3. Vol. II. 8vo. 1852.

Geographical Society. Journal. Vol. XXII. 8vo. London 1852.

Catalogue of the Library of the Royal Geographical Society. 8vo. London 1852.

Geological Society. Quarterly Journal. Nos. 31 and 32. Vol. VIII. Parts 1 and 2. Vol. IX. 8vo.

Horticultural Society. Journal. Parts 3 and 4. Vol. VII. Parts 1 and 2. Vol. VIII. 8vo.

Institute of British Architects. Proceedings. January to April 1853. 4to.

Linnean Society. Transactions. Part 1. Vol. XXI. 1852.

Proceedings. Nos. 45 to 47.

List of Fellows, 1851.

Pathological Society. Proceedings. Sixth Session, 1851–52.

Royal Agricultural Society. Journal. Parts 1 and 2. Vol. XIII.

Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society. Part 2. Vol. XIII. 8vo.

Twenty-ninth Annual Report of the Royal Asiatic Society. 8vo. 1852.

Royal Institution. Notices. No. 14 and Part II. 8vo.

Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society. Transactions. Vol. XXXV. 8vo. London 1852.

Society of Antiquaries. Proceedings. Vol. I. and Nos. 18 to 32. 8vo.

Society of Arts. Journal. Nos. 1 to 29. 8vo.

Statistical Society. Journal. Parts 3 and 4. Vol. XV. and Parts 1 and 2. Vol. XVI.

Zoological Society. Transactions. Part 2. Vol. IV. 4to. London 1853.

Proceedings. Nos. 201 to 226.

Madrid:—

Memorias de la Real Academia de Ciencias. Tomo I. p. 2. 4to. Madrid 1851.

Resumen de las Actas, &c. 4to. Madrid 1851.

Manchester:—Memoirs of the Literary and Philosophical Society. Vol. X. 8vo. London 1852.

Donors.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Association.

The Association.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Institute.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Institution.

The Med. Chir. Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Academy.

The Society.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Mauritius:—Transactions of the Meteorological Society. 8vo. Mauritius 1853.

Milan:—

Memorie dell’I. R. Istituto Lombardo di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Vol. III. The Institute.
4to. Milano 1852.

Giornale, &c. Fasc. 7 to 18. Nuova serie. 4to.

Società d’Incoraggiamento di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Rapporto ... The Society.
relatore ... agli esperimenti eseguiti dal Professore Paolo Gorini, &c. 4to.
Milano 1852.

Modena:—Memorie di Matematica e di Fisica della Società Italiana delle The Society.
Scienze. Tomo XXV. Parte prima. 4to. Modena 1852.

Munich:—

Abhandlungen der Mathemat-Physikalischen Classe der Königlich Baye- The Society.
rischen Akademie der Wissenschaften. 6th Bandes. Abth. 2, 3. 4to.
München 1851–52.

Philosoph.-Philolog. Classe. 6th Band. Abth. 3. 7th B. 1st Abth.

Historischen Classe. 6th Band. Abth. 3.

Gelehrte Anzeigen. Bänd. XXXIV. XXXV.

Bulletin, Jahrgang 1852.

Afrika vor den Entdeckungen der Portugiesen. 4to. München 1853.

Naples:—

Rendiconto della Società Reale Borbonica. Nuova Serie. Nos. 3 to 6. The Society.
4to. Napoli 1852.

Relazione sulla Malattia della Vite, &c. 4to. Napoli 1852.

Su due Libri di Apollonio Pergeo, &c. 4to. Modena.

Osservazioni su Metodi proposti dall’illustre Lagrange per le Curve Inviluppi, &c. 4to. Modena 1848.

New York:—Annals of the Lyceum of Natural History. Vol. V. Nos. 7 to 14. The Lyceum.

Paris:—

Archives du Muséum d’Histoire Naturelle. Liv. 3 et 4. Tom. VI. 4to. The Museum.
Paris.

Bulletin de la Société de Géographie. Tomes III. et IV. 8vo. 1852.

Bulletin de la Société Géologique de France. Tome IV. Feuilles 8 to 19, The Society.
1847. Tom. VIII. 35. to 40, 1851. Tome IX. 11 to 35, 1852–53.

8vo. Tom. X. 1 to 6.

Bulletin des Séances de la Société Nationale et Centrale d’Agriculture. ———

No. 1. Tom. VIII. 8vo.

Mémoires de l’Institut National de France, Académie des Inscriptions et The Institute.
Belles Lettres. Tom. XIX. 2nd partie. 4to. Paris 1853.

Morales et Politiques. Tom.

VIII. 4to. Paris 1852.

Académie des Sciences. Tom.

XXIII. 4to. Paris 1853.

Mémoires présentés par divers Savants à l’Acad. des Inscriptions, &c. ———

1ère Série. Tom. II. 4to. Paris 1852.

Comptes Rendus de l’Académie des Sciences. Liv. 23 to 26. Tom. XXXIV. ———

1 to 25. Tom. XXXV. 1852. 1 to 21. Tom. XXXVI.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Pesth:—
Á Magyar Tudós Társaság Évkönyvei. Kötetet III. to VII. 4to. Budán 1837–46.
Regi Magyar Nyelvemlékek. Köt. I. to III. 4to. Budán 1838–42.

Philadelphia:—
American Philosophical Society. Proceedings. Vol. V. No. 47. 8vo.
Franklin Institute. Journal. Nos. 5 and 6. Vol. XXIII. Nos. 1 and 2.
Vol. XXIV. 1 to 4. Vol. XXV. 8vo.

Rome:—
Atti dell’ Accademia Pontificia de’ Nuovi Lincei. Tomo I. 1847–48. Sessione 7, 8, 9. 4to. Roma 1851–52.
Corrispondenza Scientifica in Roma. Nos. 29, 30, 32, 1852.

Rotterdam:—Nieuwe Verhandelingen van het Bataafsch Genootschap. Elfde deel. 4to. Rotterdam 1851.

St. Petersburgh:—
Bulletin de la Classe Historico-Philologique de l’Académie Impériale des Sciences de St. Pétersbourg. Tom. IX.
—— de la Classe Physico-Mathématique. Tom. IX. and X.

Stockholm:—
Kongl. Vetenskaps-Akademiens Handlingar för år 1850. 8vo.
Öfversigt, — åttonde årgången 1851. 8vo.
Årsberättelse om Framstegen i Insekternas, de Natural-historia för 1849 och 1850. 8vo. Af C. H. Boheman.
Årsberättelse om Technologiens Framsteg. 1847, 1848, 1849. 8vo. Af G. E. Pasch.
Årsberättelse om Botaniska Arbeten och Upptäckter för år 1849. 8vo. Af J. E. Wikström.
Årsberättelse om Framstegen i Kemi under år 1849. 8vo. Af L. F. Svanberg.
Berättelse om Framstegen i Fysik under år 1850. Af E. Edlund. 8vo.
Berättelse om Framstegen i Molluskernas, &c. under åren 1845–49. Af S. Lovén. 8vo.

Toulouse:—Mémoires de l’Académie Nationale des Sciences, &c. Tom. II. 8vo. 1852.

Upsal:—Acta Regiae Societatis Scientiarum Upsaliensis. Seriei Tertiae Vol. I. Fasc. prior. 4to. Upsalie 1851.

Van Diemen’s Land:—
Papers and Proceedings of the Royal Society. Part 1. Vol. II. 8vo. Hobart Town 1852.
Report, &c. for the year 1851. 8vo.

Vienna:—
Denkschriften der Kaiserlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften. Band III. 2er Lief. Band IV. 2er Lief.
Sitzungsberichte, Math. Natur. Classe. Heft 4, 5. Band VIII. Jahrgang 1852, und Heft 1, 2. Band IX.
Philosoph. Histor. Classe. Heft 4 und 5. Band VIII. und Heft 1, 2. Band IX. 8vo.

DONORS.

The Academy.
The Society.
The Society.
The Academy.
The Academy.
The Society.
The Academy.
The Academy.
The Society.
The Society.
The Imperial Academy, Vienna.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Vienna:—

Almanach ... Dritter Jahrgang 1853. 8vo.

Die Feierliche Sitzung ... am 29 Mai 1852. 8vo.
Abhandlungen der Kaiserlich-Königlichen Geologischen Reichsanstalt.
Band I. 4to. Wien 1852.
Jahrbuch—Zweiter und Dritter Jahrg. 1851–52. 4to. Wien.

Washington:—

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vols. III. and IV. 4to. Washington 1852.
Fifth Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1850. 8vo. Washington 1851.
Report on Recent Improvements in the Chemical Arts. By Professor J. C. Booth and C. Morfit. 8vo. Washington 1851.
Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. First, Third, and Fifth Meetings. 8vo. Philadelphia 1849. Charleston 1850. Washington 1851.
Würzburg:—Verhandlungen der Physicalisch-Medicinischen Gesellschaft. 8vo. Erlangen, 1850–51.

ALLIES (Jabez.) On the Ancient British, Roman, and Saxon Antiquities, and Folk-lore of Worcestershire. 8vo. London and Worcester 1852.

ANONYMOUS:—

Abstract of the Seventh Census of the United States. Third Edition. 4to. Washington 1851.
A Catalogue of the Library of the London Institution. Vol. IV. 1852.
A Collection of Tables, Astronomical, Meteorological, and Magnetical, &c. &c., computed in the Office of the Honourable East India Company’s Observatory, Simla. 4to. Umballa 1850.
Annals of the Astronomical Observatory of Georgetown College, D.C. No. 1. 4to. New York 1852.
Annales des Mines. Tom. XX. Liv. 6. Tom. I. 5me Série, Liv. 1 et 2. 8vo.
Annuaire de l’Institut des Provinces et des Congrès Scientifiques, 1853.
Army Meteorological Register, for Twelve Years, from 1831 to 1842 inclusive. 8vo. Washington 1851.
Catalogue of Stars near the Ecliptic, observed at Markree during the years 1848–50, &c. Vol. I. (containing 14,888 stars). 8vo. Dublin 1851.
Catalogue of Portions of the Library of Mr. Purton Cooper. 8vo. London 1852.
Catalogue des Manuserits et Xylographes orientaux de la Bibliothèque Impériale publique de St. Pétersbourg.
Circulation ou Stagnation. 8vo. Bruxelles 1852.
Catalogue of a Collection of Ancient and Mediaeval Rings and Personal Ornaments formed for Lady Londesborough.
Der Kaiserlichen Universität Dorpat zu ihrem funfzigjährigen Jubelfeste am 12 December 1852. 4to. Riga 1852.
Directions for the collecting, &c. of Specimens of Natural History. 8vo. Washington 1852.

DONORS.

The Imperial Academy, Vienna.
The Institute.
The Smithsonian Institution.
The Association.
The Society.
The Author.
The U.S. Government.
The Institution.
The Directors of the East India Company.
The College.
L’École des Mines.
M. de Caumont.
The United States Government.
Her Majesty’s Government.
C. P. Cooper, Esq., F.R.S.
The Library.
The Author.
Lord Londesborough.
The University.
The Smithsonian Institution.
Presents.

ANONYMOUS (continued).
Effemeridi Astronomiche di Milano 1852. 8vo. 1851.
Flora Batava. Parts 169 to 172.

History and Statistics of the State of Maryland, &c. fol. Washington 1852.
Information to Persons having Business to transact at the Patent Office. 8vo. 1851.
Letter from the Secretary of the Treasury, on the computation of Tables, to be used with the Hydrometer, and recently adopted for use in the United States Custom Houses. 8vo. 1851.
List of the Fellows and Members of the Royal College of Surgeons.
Magnetical and Meteorological Observations made at the Hon. E. I. Comp. Observatory at Bombay, in the year 1849. 4to. Bombay 1852.
Meteorological Observations made at Dodabetta in the years 1848–50. 4to. Madras 1852.
Notes and Queries. Vol. V. 4to. London 1852.
Observations on India, by a Resident there many Years.
Quarterly Return of Marriages, Births and Deaths. Nos. 14 to 17. 1852–53.
Records of the School of Mines, &c. Vol. I. Part 2. 8vo. London 1853.
Report of the Secretary of War, in reference to the deepening of the passage over the bars at the mouths of the Mississippi. 8vo. 1851.
Report, &c. on American Coals, by W. R. Johnson. 8vo. Washington 1844.
Report of the Officers constituting the Light House Board. 8vo. Washington 1852.
Reports of the Commissioner of Patents for the year 1850. Part I. Arts and Manufactures. Part 2. Agriculture. 8vo. Washington 1851. Patent Laws. 8vo.
Report of the Mortality Bills of the City of Glasgow and Suburbs for 1852, by J. Strang, LL.D.
Report from the Provisional Directors of the London (Watford) Spring Water Company. 8vo. 1852.
Reports made to the Directors, &c. &c., by Drs. Lankester, Redfern, Clark and Smith. 8vo. 1852.
Report of the Proceedings of the Banking Institute. 8vo. London 1852.
Report (First) of the Commissioners for the Exhibition of 1851. 4to. London 1852.
Reports of the Juries on the Subjects in the Thirty Classes into which the Exhibition was divided.
Report (Exhibition Jury), Class X. Philosophical Instruments and Processes depending on their Use. 8vo.
Review of Lord Mahon's History of the American Revolution. 8vo. Boston 1852.
Statements, supported by Evidence, of W. T. G. Morton, M.D., on his claim to the Discovery of the Anæsthetic Properties of Ether, &c. 8vo. Washington 1853.
The Antiquities of Russia. Parts 6 and 7. Plates and Text. 4to. and fol. Moscow 1853.

Donors.

The Observatory, Milan.
H. M. the King of the Netherlands.
The U.S. Government.
The College.
The Hon. East India Company.
The Editor.
The Author.
The Registrar-General.
J. B. Jukes, Esq.
The United States Government.
Dr. Strang.
The Directors.
The Institute.
The Commissioners.
J. Glaischer, Esq., F.R.S.
The Author.
W. T. G. Morton, M.D.
Prince Demidoff.
PRESENTS.

ANONYMOUS (continued).
The Celtic Records of Ireland. 8vo. Dublin 1852.
The London University Calendar, 1853.
The Nautical Almanac for the year 1856.

ARGELANDER (W. A.) Astronomische Beobachtungen auf der Sternwarte zu Bonn. 2nd Band. 4to. Bonn 1852.

BABBAGE (C.) On the Principles of Taxation. 3rd edition. 8vo. London 1853.

BARRY (Dr. M.) Renewed Inquiries concerning the Spiral Structure of Muscle, &c. 8vo. 1852.

BIENAYMÉ (J. T.) Sur la Probabilité des erreurs d'après la Méthode des moindres carrés. 4to. Paris 1852.

BILLING (Dr. A.) Practical Observations on Diseases of the Lungs and Heart. 8vo. London 1852.

BLACKWELL (J. K.) Explosions in Coal Mines, &c. 8vo. London 1853.

BOUTIGNY (P. H.) Note sur un Nouveau Générateur à Vapeur. 4to.

BRYDGES (C. J.) Railway Superannuation, &c. 8vo. London 1852.

BURN (J. H.) A Descriptive Catalogue of the London Traders', Tavern and Coffee House Tokens, current in the 17th Century. 8vo. London 1853.

BURQ (V.) Mémoire sur quelques Accidents nerveux consécutifs au Cholera. 8vo. Paris 1850.

Sur un Traitement Préservatif et Curatif du Cholera. 1852.

De l'Anesthésie et de l'Amyosthénie. 4to. Paris 1851.

CARPENTER (W. B.) Principles of Human Physiology, &c. 8vo. London 1853.

CAUCHY (A.). Exercices d'Analyse et de Physique Mathématique. 4to. Paris 1847. Liv. 42 to 45. Tom. IV.

CHASLES (A.) Traité de Géométrie Supérieure. 8vo. Paris 1852.

CHESNEY (Col.) On the Recent Improvements in the Construction of Fire Arms. 8vo. Cork 1852.

COLLENZA (P.) Un Caso di Ermafrodito vivente neutro-laterale. 4to. Napoli 1853.

DANA (J. D.) On the Classification of the Crustacea, Choristopoda or Tetra-decapoda. 8vo. 1852.

On the Humite of Monte Somma. 8vo. 1852.

Note on the Eruption of Mauna Loa. 8vo. 1852.

DE LA BECHE (Sir H. T.) The Geological Observer. 2nd edit. revised. 8vo. London 1853.

DE LA RIVE (A.) A Treatise on Electricity in Theory and Practice. Vol. I. 8vo. London 1853.

DENHAM (Rev. J. F.) The Re-opening Lecture—On the Metaphysics of Education, &c. 8vo. London 1852.

D'ESTOCQUOIS (Th.) Mémoire sur l'Attraction Moléculaire. 8vo.

DICKINSON (J.) The Flora of Liverpool. 8vo. Liverpool 1851.

DOVE (H. W.) Die Verbreitung der Wärme auf der Oberfläche der Erde, u.s.w. 4to. Berlin 1852.

Ueber die Klimatischen Verhältnisse des Preussischen Staates. 8vo. Berlin 1853.

DONORS.

The Author.
The University.
The Superintendent.
W. A. Argelander.
The Author.
The Author.
The Author.
The Author.
The Guildhall Library Committee.
The Author.
The Royal Academy of Sciences, Naples.
The Author.
The Author.
The Author.
The Author.
PRESENTS.

DREW (J.) On the Present State of Meteorological Science in England. 4to.

DROBISCH (M. W.) Zusätze zum Florentiner Problem. 4to. Leipzig 1852.

Ueber Musikalische Tonbestimmung und Temperatur. 4to. Leipzig 1852.

DU BOIS-REYMOND (E.) Untersuchungen über Thierische Elektricität. 3er Fortsetzung. 8vo.

DUMÉRIL (M.) Prodrome de la Classification des Reptiles Ophidiens. 4to. Paris 1853.

DUMONT (A.) Observations sur la Constitution Géologique des Terrains tertiaires de l'Angleterre, &c. 8vo.

DWARRIS (Sir F.) A Letter to the Fellows of the Royal Society of Antiquaries, &c. Privately printed. 8vo. 1852.

FOURCAULT (A.) Moyens d'améliorer les conditions physiques et morales des Peuples. 8vo. Paris 1853.

FREEMAN (J.) Life of the Rev. W. Kirby, F.R.S., &c. 8vo. London 1852.

GIULIO (C. J.) Recherches Expérimentales sur la Résistance de l'Air au mouvement des Pendules. 4to. Turin 1852.

Sulla Intensità del Lume. 4to. Torino 1852.

GLYNN (J.) Rudimentary Treatise on the Power of Water, &c. 8vo. London 1853.

GODWIN (G.) History in Ruins: a Series of Letters, &c. 8vo. London 1853.

GORE (Montague.) Sailors' Homes. 8vo.

Progress of Sailors' Homes. 8vo. 1852.

GORINI (P.) Sull' origine delle Montagne e dei Vulcani. 8vo. Lodi 1851.

Gli esperimenti sulla Formazione delle Montagne. 8vo. Milano 1852. With an illustrative Model.

GRIFFITH (W. P.) Ancient Gothic Churches, &c. Part III. 4to. London 1852.

Architectural Botany, &c. 4to. London 1852.

GRIFFITHS (W.) Posthumous Papers: Notulae ad Plantas Asiaticas. Part III. 8vo. Calcutta 1851.

Atlas to ditto: Icones Plantarum Asiaticarum. Part III. 4to. Calcutta, 1851.

GUMBEL (W. T.) Die fünf Würfelschnitte. 4to. Landau, 1852.

HAIDINGER (Wilhelm.) Ueber eine neue Varietät von Amethyst. 4to. Wien 1849.

Ueber den Pleochroismus der Krystalle. 4to. Prag 1845.

Ueber die Pseudomorphosen und ihre anogene und katogene Bildung. 4to. Prag 1844.

Ueber den durchsichtigen Andalusit, u.s.w. 4to. Prag 1844.

Ueber einige neue Pseudomorphosen. 4to. Prag 1841.

Der rothe Glaskopf, u.s.w. 4to. Prag 1846.

Ueber den Cordierit. 4to. Prag 1845.

MDCCCLIII.
PRESENTS.

HAIDINGER (Wilhelm.) Ueber die schwarzen und gelben Parallel-Linien am Glimmer. 8vo. Wien 1849.

Die Löwe'schen Ringe eine Beugungs-Erscheinung. 8vo. Wien 1852.

Das Interferenz-Schachbrettmuster und die Farbe der Polarisationsbüschel. 8vo. Wien.

Ueber den Zusammenhang der Körperfarben, &c. 8vo.

Note über die Richtung der Schwingungen des Lichtäthers, &c. 8vo.

Note über den metallähnlichen Schiller des Hypersthens. 8vo.

HANNOVER (A.) Das Epithelioma, u.s.w. 8vo. Leipzig 1852.

HARDY (P.) An Exposé of the Fallacy, "that it is just to tax Temporary Annuities at the same rate as Perpetual Annuities." 8vo. London 1853.

HOFMEISTER (W.) Beiträge zur Kenntniss der Gefässkryptogamen. 4to. Leipzig 1852.

HOGG (J.) On Acre and its Antiquities. 8vo. London 1852.

On some Roman Antiquities recently discovered by Dr. Barth in Northern Africa. 8vo.

Notice of recent discoveries in Central Africa, &c. 8vo.

Supplemental Note to the Memoir on Two Roman Inscriptions, &c. 8vo. 1851.

Note on a Papyrus Greek Manuscript, &c. 8vo. 1851.

HORSFIELD (Dr. T.) Plante Javanicae Rariores, descriptae Iconibusque illustratae. 4to. London 1838–1852.

HOWARD (W.) Narrative of a Journey to the summit of Mont Blanc, made in July, 1819. 8vo. Baltimore 1821.

JOHNSON (M. J.) Astronomical Observations made at the Radcliffe Observatory, Oxford, in the year 1850. Vols. XI. and XII. 1851. 8vo. Oxford 1852–53.

JOURNALS:

Astronomische Nachrichten. Nos. 810 to 842; 844 to 862.

Bulletino Archeologico Napolitano. Nos. 1 to 12. 1852. 4to.

Journal of the Indian Archipelago. Nos. 3 to 6; 9 to 12. Vol. VI.

The American Journal of Science and Arts. Nos. 41 to 45. Vols. XIV. and XV.

The Art Journal. July 1852 to June 1853. Vols. IV. and V.

The Athenæum. June to December 1852; January to May 1853.

The Builder. Parts 6 to 12. Vol. X. 1 to 5. Vol. XI.

The Canadian Journal. August 1852 to March 1853. 4to. Toronto.

The Philosophical Magazine, Nos. 6 to 12, 1852. Nos. 1 to 5, 1853.

JUKES (J. B.) Excursions in and about Newfoundland, during the years 1839 and 1840. 2 vols. 8vo. London 1842.

General Report of the Geological Survey of Newfoundland, &c. 8vo. London 1843.

KEBER (F.) De Spermatozoorum introitu in Ovula. 4to. Königsberg 1853.

KENDALL (A.) Full Exposure of Dr. C. T. Jackson's Pretensions to the Invention of the American Electro-Magnetic Telegraph. 8vo. Washington 1852.

DONORS.

The Author.

The Royal Saxon Society of Sciences.

Lt. Gen. Steuart, U.S.A.

per J. Auldjo, Esq., F.R.S.

The Radcliffe Trustees.

The Observatory, Altona.

Sig. G. Minervini.

The Editor.

The Editors.

The Editor.

The Editor.

The Canadian Institute.

Richard Taylor, Esq.

The Author.

The Publisher.
PRESENTS.

KENNEDY (J. C. G.) Statistics of American Railroads. 8vo. Washington 1852.

Survey-Map of the North-Eastern Boundary Line of the United States, 1840-41.

KREIL (K.) Magnetische und Geographische Ortsbestimmungen im Oesterreichischen Kaiserstaate. 5th Jahrgang, 1851. 4to. Prag 1852.

LAMONT (J.) Annalen der Königlichen Sternwarte bei München. Band V. 1852.

Jahresbericht der K. Sternwarte, &c. 8vo. 1852.

LATHAM (Dr. R. G.) The Natural History of the Varieties of Man. 8vo. London 1850.

The Ethnology of Europe. Svo. London 1852.

The Ethnology of the British Islands. 8vo. London 1852.

Man and his Migrations. 8vo. London 1851.

The Ethnology of the British Colonies and Dependencies. 8vo. London 1851.

LAURENCE (R. M.) On the Application and Effect of Electricity and Galvanism in the Treatment of Cancerous, Nervous, Rheumatic, and other Affections. 8vo. London 1853.

LEA (J.) On the Fossil Footmarks in the Red Sandstone of Pottsville. 4to. Philadelphia 1852.

On a Fossil Saurian of the New Red Sandstone, &c. 4to. Philadelphia 1852.

Observations on the Genus Unio. Vol. V. 4to. Philadelphia 1852.

A Synopsis of the Family of Naïades. 4to. Philadelphia 1852.

LE CANU (L. R.) Nouvelles Études Chirurgiques sur le Sang. 8vo. Paris 1852.

LE JOLIS (A.) Observations sur quelques Plantes rares découvertes aux environs de Cherbourg. 8vo.

Quelques réflexions sur l'Étude de la Botanique. 8vo.

Notice sur l'Origine et l'Établissement de la Foire Saint-Clair, de Querqueville. 8vo.

Note sur l'Edipode voyageuse, &c. 8vo.

Mémoire sur le Lin de la Nouvelle-Zélande. 8vo. Cherbourg 1848.

Procédure au XV° siècle, relative à la confiscation de Biens saisis sur un Anglais. 8vo. Cherbourg 1851.

LITTRROW (C. L. von.) Annalen der K. K. Sternwarte in Wien. 2nd Band. 3rd Folge. 8vo. Wien 1852.

LIOUVILLE (J.) Journal de Mathématiques. Table des Matières contenues dans les 10 premiers volumes. 4to. Paris 1845.

Sur un Mémoire de M. Jules Bienaymé, concernant la Probabilité des Erreurs, &c. 4to. Paris 1852.

LOWE (E. J.) The Conchology of Nottingham, &c. 8vo. London 1853.

McWILLIAM (J. O.) Observations on a recently published work, entitled "The Fever at Boa Vista," &c.

MARIANINI (P. D.) Sopra l'Equivalenza di alcuni Spazii e Solidi, &c. 8vo. Modena 1845.

DONORS.

The United States Government.

The Observatory, Prague.

The Observatory.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

J. Liouville.

The Author.

The Author.
PRESENTS.

MARIANINI (P. D.) Sopra l'Aumento di Forza assorbente che si osserva in un' Elica Elettro-dinamica. 8vo. Modena 1852.

Sopra il Fenomeno che si osserva nelle calamite temporarie, &c. 8vo. Modena 1851.

Dell' Elettromotore voltaico siccome Pato-Scopio, &c. 8vo.

MARIANINI (D.) Sui Logaritmi de' Numeri, &c. 8vo. Acqui 1848.

MARTIUS (C. F. P. von.) Versuch eines Commentars über die Pflanzen, u.s.w. I Kryptogamen. 4to. München 1853.

MAURY (Lieut. M. F.) Explanations and Sailing Directions, to accompany the Wind and Current Charts. 4to. Washington 1851.

MERET (E.) Plan géometrique d'Effets produits par les courbes et les axes. Sheet.

MINERVINI (Giulio) Illustrazione di un Vaso volcente rappresentante Ercole presso la Famiglia di Eurito, &c. 4to. Napoli 1851.

Illustrazione di un Vaso Ruvese, &c. 4to. Napoli 1851.

Intorno le Medaglie dell' antica Dalvon Osservazioni. 4to. Napoli 1852.

Nuove Osservazioni intorno la Voce Decatrenses, &c. 4to. Napoli 1852.

Vaso di Bronzo rinvenuto in Santa Maria di Capua. 8vo. Roma 1851.

Monumenti Antichi Inediti posseduti da Raffaele Barone, &c. Volume primo. 8vo. Napoli 1850.

MISCELLANEOUS:

Diagrams of the General Plan, &c. of Mr. Babbage's Calculating Engine. 12 Sheets.

Stalactite from a Cavern near Syracuse.

MOON (R.) Light explained on the Hypothesis of the Ethereal Medium being a Viscous Fluid. Part 1. 8vo. Cambridge 1853.

MURCHISON (Sir R. I.) Address at the Anniversary Meeting of the Royal Geographical Society. 8vo. London 1852.

NAMIAS (G.) Prospetto statistico delle malattie curate nelle...sale mediche...di Venezia, &c. 8vo. Venezia.

OWEN (David Dale.) Report of a Geological Survey of Wisconsin, Iowa, and Minnesota, &c. With Illustrations. 2 vols. 4to. Philadelphia 1852.

PAGET (J.) Lectures on Surgical Pathology. 2 vols. 8vo. London 1853.

PAINE (Martyn.) Memoir of Robert Troup Paine. 4to. New York 1852.

A Discourse on the Soul and Instinct. 8vo. New York 1849.

PERREY (A.) Documents relatifs aux Tremblements de Terre dans le nord de l'Europe, et de l'Asie. 4to. St. Pétersbourg 1849.

PETTIGREW (T. J.) Letter to the Lord Viscount Mahon, on the Present State and Condition of the Society of Antiquaries. 8vo. London 1852.

PHILLIPS (W.) An Elementary Introduction to Mineralogy. New Edition, edited by H.J. Brooke, Esq., and Professor W. H. Miller. 8vo. London 1852.

PLAYFAIR (Dr. L.) Industrial Instruction on the Continent. A Lecture. 8vo. London 1852.

DONORS.

The Author.

The Author.

The United States Government.

The Author.

The Author.

C. Babbage, Esq., F.R.S.

Professor Caltrero.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Museum of Practical Geology.
PRESENTS.

PORRO (M.) Raies Longitudinales du Spectre. 4to. Paris 1852.

PORTLOCK (Lt. Col. J. E.) Annual Address delivered before the Geological Society of Dublin. 8vo. Dublin 1852.

MEMOIR OF THE LIFE OF MAJOR-GENERAL COLBY, F.R.S., &c. &c. 8vo. London 1853.

PORTRAITS:—

Engraved Portraits of P. G. Dandelin and L. V. Raoul.

POUCHET (F. A.) Histoire des Sciences Naturelles au Moyen-Age, &c. 8vo. Paris 1853.

PURSLO (J.) The Government of the Heavens. 8vo. Edinburgh 1852.

QUETELET (A.) Sur l'Électricité de l'Air. 8vo.

Observations des Phénomènes Périodiques pour l'année 1850. 4to; and pour l'année 1851.

Sur le Climat de la Belgique. 5me partie. 4to. Bruxelles 1852.

Sur l'Électricité de l'Air, &c. 8vo.

Sur les Tables de Mortalité et de Population. 4to.

Sur les Temps des Révolutions des Satellites de Jupiter et de Saturne, Note. 8vo.

Annales de l'Observatoire Royale de Bruxelles. Tom. VIII. IX. 4to. Bruxelles 1852.

Annuaire 1852. 19e année. 8vo.

QUETELET (E.) Recherches sur les Médianes. 4to.

RENNIE (Sir J.) On the Theory, Construction and Formation of British and Foreign Harbours. Parts 16 to 19.

REICH (F.) Neue Versuche mit der Drehwaage. 4to. Leipzig 1852.

RINK (H.) De Danske Handelsdistrikter i Nordgrønland. Forste deel. 8vo. Kjøbenhavn 1852.

Om Monopolhandelen paa Grønland. 8vo. Kjøbenhavn 1852.

ROBERTS (Lieut. Julius.) Local Attraction; its Effects and Obviation, &c. 8vo. Portsea 1852.

ROBINSON (Rev. T. R.) Experimental Researches on the Lifting Power of the Electro-Magnet. 4to. Dublin 1852.

RUSCHENBERGER (W. S. W.) A Notice of the Origin, Progress, and Present Condition of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 8vo. Philadelphia 1852.

SABINE (Col. E.) Observations made at the Magnetical and Meteorological Observatory at Hobarton. 4to. London 1853.

SADI (Muslihu'd-diu,) The Gulistan, or Rose-Garden. Translated by Edward B. Eastwick, Esq., F.R.S. 8vo. Herford, 1852.

SCHMIDT (J. F. J.) Beobachtung der Totalen Sonnenfinsterniss vom 28sten Juli 1851, zu Rastenburg in Ostpreussen.

SCHOOLCRAFT (H. R.) Information respecting the History, Condition, and Prospects of the Indian Tribes of the United States. Part 2. 1852. 4to. Philadelphia 1852.

SCHWEIZER (G.) Bericht an die Kaiserlich Russisch Geographische Gesellschaft über die Expedition nach Machnowka, &c. 8vo. Moskau 1851.

DONORS.

M. Zantedeschi.

The Author.

The Author.

The Academy of Sciences of Belgium.

The Author.

The Author.

The Observatory, Brussels.

The Royal Saxon Society of Sciences.

The Author, per Dr. Wallich, F.R.S.

The Author.

The Translator.

W. A. Argelander.

The United States Government.

The Observatory, Moscow.
PRESENTS.

SEDGWICK (Rev. A.) A Synopsis of the Classification of the British Palaeozoic Rocks, &c. Fase. 2. 4to. London and Cambridge 1852.

SEDGWICK (J.) The true Principle of the Law of Storms, &c. 8vo. London 1852.

SIMMS (W.) The Achromatic Telescope, &c. 8vo. London 1852.

SINOBAS (Don Manuel Rico y.) Memoria sobre las Causas Meteorológicas Físicas, &c. 4to. Madrid 1851.

SMYTH (C. P.) Contributions to a Knowledge of the Phenomena of the Zodiacal Light. 4to. Edinburgh 1852.

——— On the Total Solar Eclipse of 1851. 4to. Edinburgh 1852.

——— On Raising Water for the purposes of Irrigation in the Colonies. 8vo. London 1853.

——— Report to the Visitors of the Royal Observatory of Edinburgh. 4to. Nov. 1852.

SNOOKE (W. D.) Brief Astronomical Tables, &c. 8vo. London 1852.

SOLLY (E.) Trade Museums, their Nature and Uses, &c. 8vo. London 1853.

STANSBURY (Capt. H.) Exploration and Survey of the Valley of the Great Salt Lake of Utah. 8vo. Philadelphia 1852. Maps to ditto (in cover).

STRUVE (F. G. W.) Stellarum Fixarum, imprimis duplicium et multiplicium, positiones mediae pro Epocha 1830. fol. Petropol. 1852.

——— Exposé Historique des travaux exécutés jusqu'à la fin de l'année 1851 pour la mesure de l'arc du méridien entre Fuglenaes 70° 40' et Ismail 45° 20'. 4to. St. Pétersbourg 1852.

STRUVE (O.) Sur les Dimensions des Anneaux de Saturne. 4to. St. Pétersbourg 1852.

SYLVESTER (J. J.) On the Principles of the Calculus of Forms. 8vo. 1852.

TAYLOR (T. G.) Result of Astronomical Observations made at the Observatory at Madras. Vol. V. 4to. Madras 1839.

TAYLOR (Rev. W.) The Diagrams of Euclid's Elements, &c., embossed for the use of Blind Persons. Part 1. 8vo. York 1828.

THOMPSON (Theophilus.) Annals of Influenza or Epidemic Catarrhal Fever in Great Britain, from 1510 to 1837. Published by the Sydenham Society. 8vo. London 1852.

TOLLIN (F.) L'Aéronautique d'après Nature, &c. 4to. Genève 1852.

TORTOLINI (Barnaba.) Annali di Scienze Matematiche e Fisiche. November 1851 to October 1852. 8vo.

TOYNBEE (J.) On the Use of an Artificial Membrana Tympani, &c. 8vo. London 1853.

TWNING (Elizabeth.) Illustrations of the Natural Orders of Plants. Parts 18 to 22. fol. London 1852.

VILLARCEAU (Y.) Théorie de la Stabilité des Machines Locomotives en mouvement. 8vo. Paris 1852.

VOLPICELLI (P.) Sul Raggiamento calorifico diretto del Sole. 4to. Roma 1852.

——— Sui Criteri d'Integrabilità delle Funzioni Differenziali. 4to. Roma 1852.

WARD (N. B.) On the Growth of Plants in closely glazed Cases. Second Edition. 8vo. London 1852.

DONORS.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Academy of Sciences, Madrid.

The Author.

Rear-Admiral W. H. Smyth, For. Sec. R.S.

The Author.

The Author.

The Imperial Academy, St. Petersburgh.

The Author.

The Directors of the East India Company.

The Author.

The Author.

Dr. Galiffe.

The Editor.

The Author.

R. Twining, Esq., F.R.S.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.
PRESENTS.

WARREN (Dr. J. C.) The Mastodon Giganteus of North America. 4to. *Boston* 1852.

WARREN (S.) The Intellectual and Moral Development of the Present Age. Second Edition. 8vo. *London* and *Edinburgh* 1853.

WARTMANN (E.) Recherches sur la Conductibilité des Minéraux pour l'Electricité Voltaïque. 4to. *Geneva* 1851.

WEBER (W.) Elektrodynamische Maasbestimmungen insbesondere über Diamagnetismus. 4to. *Leipzig* 1852.

WEBSTER (T.) The New Patent Law; its History, Objects and Provisions, &c. 8vo. *London* 1853.

WOLF (Rudolph.) Neue Untersuchungen über die Periode der Sonnenflecken und ihre Bedeutung. 8vo. *Bern* 1852.

WROTTESLEY (Lord.) Speech in the House of Lords on the 26th of April 1853, on Lieut. Maury's Plan for Improving Navigation, &c. 8vo. *London* 1853.

YOLLAND (Capt. W.) Astronomical Observations made with Airy's Zenith Sector, from 1842 to 1850, for the Determination of the Latitudes of various Trigonometrical Stations used in the Ordnance Survey of the British Isles. 4to. *London* 1852.

ZANTEDESCHI (F. C.) Ricerche Fisico-Matematiche sulla Deviazione del Pendolo dalla sua Trajettoria. 4to. *Padova* 1852.

De la Différence de Pouvoir dispersif des deux Electricités. 4to. *Paris* 1852.

Nouvelles Experiences d'Electricité animale. 4to. *Paris* 1852.

DONORS.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Royal Saxon Society of Sciences.

The Author.

The Author.

The Board of Ordnance.

The Author.