# Front Matter

**Author(s):** Anonymous  
**Year:** 1852  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London  
**Volume:** 142  
**Pages:** 15 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-108528  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/108528>  

---

ADVERTISEMENT.

The Committee appointed by the Royal Society to direct the publication of the Philosophical Transactions, take this opportunity to acquaint the Public, that it fully appears, as well from the Council-books and Journals of the Society, as from repeated declarations which have been made in several former Transactions, that the printing of them was always, from time to time, the single act of the respective Secretaries till the Forty-seventh Volume; the Society, as a Body, never interesting themselves any further in their publication, than by occasionally recommending the revival of them to some of their Secretaries, when, from the particular circumstances of their affairs, the Transactions had happened for any length of time to be intermitted. And this seems principally to have been done with a view to satisfy the Public, that their usual meetings were then continued, for the improvement of knowledge, and benefit of mankind, the great ends of their first institution by the Royal Charters, and which they have ever since steadily pursued.

But the Society being of late years greatly enlarged, and their communications more numerous, it was thought advisable that a Committee of their members should be appointed, to reconsider the papers read before them, and select out of them such as they should judge most proper for publication in the future Transactions; which was accordingly done upon the 26th of March 1752. And the grounds of their choice are, and will continue to be, the importance and singularity of the subjects, or the advantageous manner of treating them; without pretending to answer for the certainty of the facts, or propriety of the reasonings, contained in the several papers so published, which must still rest on the credit or judgement of their respective authors.

It is likewise necessary on this occasion to remark, that it is an established rule of the Society, to which they will always adhere, never to give their opinion, as a Body,
upon any subject, either of Nature or Art, that comes before them. And therefore
the thanks, which are frequently proposed from the Chair, to be given to the authors
of such papers as are read at their accustomed meetings, or to the persons through
whose hands they received them, are to be considered in no other light than as a
matter of civility, in return for the respect shown to the Society by those communi-
cations. The like also is to be said with regard to the several projects, inventions,
and curiosities of various kinds, which are often exhibited to the Society; the authors
whereof, or those who exhibit them, frequently take the liberty to report and even to
certify in the public newspapers, that they have met with the highest applause and
approbation. And therefore it is hoped that no regard will hereafter be paid to such
reports and public notices; which in some instances have been too lightly credited,
to the dishonour of the Society.

The Meteorological Journal hitherto kept by the Assistant Secretary at the Apart-
ments of the Royal Society, by order of the President and Council, and published in
the Philosophical Transactions, has been discontinued. The Government, on the
recommendation of the President and Council, has established at the Royal Obser-
vatory at Greenwich, under the superintendence of the Astronomer Royal, a Magnet-
ical and Meteorological Observatory, where observations are made on an extended
scale, which are regularly published. These, which correspond with the grand
scheme of observations now carrying out in different parts of the globe, supersede
the necessity of a continuance of the observations made at the Apartments of the
Royal Society, which could not be rendered so perfect as was desirable, on account
of the imperfections of the locality and the multiplied duties of the observer.
A List of Public Institutions and Individuals, entitled to receive a copy of the Philosophical Transactions of each year, on making application for the same directly or through their respective agents, within five years of the date of publication.

**Observatories.**

Armagh.
Cape of Good Hope.
Dublin.
Edinburgh.
Greenwich.
Madras.

**Institutions.**

Barbadoes ..............Library and Museum.
Calcutta ...............Asiatic Society.
Cambridge .............Philosophical Society.
Dublin ................Royal Dublin Society.
Edinburgh .............Royal Irish Academy.
London ................Admiralty Library.
Chemical Society.
Entomological Society.
Geological Society.
Geological Survey of Great Britain.
Horticultural Society.
Institute of British Architects.
Institution of Civil Engineers.
Linnean Society.
London Institution.
Medical and Chirurgical Society.
Queen's Library.
Royal Asiatic Society.
Royal Astronomical Society.
Royal College of Physicians.
Royal Geographical Society.
Royal Institution of Great Britain.
Royal Society of Literature.
Society of Antiquaries.
Society for the Encouragement of Arts.
The Treasury.
United Service Museum.
Zoological Society.
Malta ..................Public Library.
Manchester ............Literary and Philosophical Society.
Oxford ................Ashmolean Society.
Radcliffe Library.
Swansea ...............Royal Institution.
Woolwich .............Royal Artillery Library.

**Belgium.**

Brussels ...............Royal Academy of Sciences.

**Denmark.**

Altona .................Royal Observatory.
Copenhagen ...........Royal Society of Sciences.

**France.**

Paris ..................Academy of Sciences.
Dépôt de la Marine.
École des Mines.
Paris ..................Entomological Society.
Geographical Society.
Geological Society.
Jardin des Plantes.
Toulouse ..............Academy of Sciences.

**Germany.**

Bonn ..................Cæsarean Acad. of Naturalists.
Göttingen .............University.
Mannheim .............Observatory.
Munich ...............Royal Academy of Sciences.

**Italy.**

Naples ................Institute of Sciences.
Milan ................Institute of Sciences, Letters and Arts.
Modena ...............Italian Society of Sciences.
Turin ................Royal Academy of Sciences.

**Netherlands.**

Amsterdam ............Royal Institute.
Rotterdam ............Batavian Society of Experimental Philosophy.

**Prussia.**

Berlin ................Royal Academy of Sciences.
Society of Experimental Philosophy.

**Portugal.**

Lisbon ................Royal Academy of Sciences.

**Russia.**

Pulkowa ..............Observatory.
St. Petersburg .......Imperial Academy of Sciences.

**Spain.**

Cadiz ................Observatory.

**Sweden and Norway.**

Drontheim ............Royal Society of Sciences.
Stockholm ............Royal Academy of Sciences.

**Switzerland.**

Geneva ...............Société de Phys. et d'Hist. Naturelle.

**United States.**

Boston ................American Academy of Sciences.
Cambridge ............Harvard University.
Philadelphia .........American Philosophical Society.
Washington ..........Smithsonian Institution.
Observatory.

The fifty Foreign Members of the Royal Society.
A List of Public Institutions and Individuals, entitled to receive a copy of the Astronomical Observations (including Magnetism and Meteorology) made at the Royal Observatory at Greenwich, on making application for the same directly or through their respective agents, within two years of the date of publication.

| Observatories | Institutions |
|---------------|--------------|
| Altona        | Aberdeen     |
| Armagh        | Berlin       |
| Berlin        | Bologna      |
| Breslau       | Boston       |
| Brussels      | Brunswick    |
| Cadiz         | Cambridge    |
| Cambridge     | Cape of Good Hope |
| Coimbra       | Coimbra      |
| Copenhagen    | Copenhagen   |
| Dorpat        | Dorpat       |
| Dublin        | Edinburgh    |
| Edinburgh     | Helsingfors  |
| Königsberg    | Königsberg   |
| Madras        | Madras       |
| Mannheim      | Mannheim     |
| Marseilles    | Marseilles   |
| Milan         | Milan        |
| Munich        | Munich       |
| Oxford        | Oxford       |
| Palermo       | Palermo      |
| Paris         | Paris        |
| Seeberg       | Seeberg      |
| Trevandrum    | Trevandrum   |
| Tübingen      | Tübingen     |
| Turin         | Turin        |
| Vienna        | Vienna       |
| Wilna         | Wilna        |

| Institutions |
|--------------|
| University   |
| Academy      |
| Academy      |
| American Academy of Sciences |
| Bowdoin College |
| Trinity College Library |
| Harvard University |
| University |
| University |
| Royal Society |
| University |
| University |
| University |
| Board of Ordnance |
| Queen's Library |
| Royal Institution |
| Royal Society |
| Savilian Library |
| Academy of Sciences |
| Board of Longitude |
| Dépôt de la Marine |
| American Philosophical Society |
| University |
| Imperial Academy |
| Royal Academy of Sciences |
| Royal Society |
| College |

| Individuals |
|-------------|
| Woolwich    |
| London      |
| Cambridge   |
| Cambridge   |
| London      |
| Aylesbury   |
| Kensington  |
List of Observatories, Institutions and Individuals, entitled to receive a Copy of the Magnetical and Meteorological Observations made at the Royal Observatory, Greenwich.

### Observatories

- **Bombay**  
  M. Prang, 1st.
- **Barnaoul**
- **Cairo**  
  M. Lambert.
- **Cambridge, United States**  
  Professor Lovering.
- **Catherineburgh**  
  M. Rochkoff.
- **Christiania**  
  M. Hansteen.
- **Cincinnati**  
  Dr. Locke.
- **Gotha**
- **Hammerfest**
- **Heidelberg**  
  M. Tiedemann.
- **Hobarton**  
  Commander Kay, R.N.
- **Kasan**  
  M. Simonoff.
- **Kew**  
  F. Ronalds, Esq.
- **Kremsmünster**  
  Professor Koller.
- **Leipsic**
- **Marburg**  
  Professor Gerling.
- **Nertchinsk**  
  M. Prang, 2nd.
- **Nikolaieff**  
  Dr. Knorre.
- **Pekin**  
  M. Gachkévitche.
- **Prague**  
  M. Kreil.
- **Pulkowa**  
  M. Struve.
- **St. Petersburgh**  
  M. Kupffer.
- **Sitka**  
  Messrs. Homann and Ivanoff.
- **Stockholm**  
  Professor Selander.
- **Tiflis**  
  M. Philadelphine.
- **Toronto**  
  Captain Lefroy, R.A.
- **Upsal**  
  Professor Svanberg.
- **Warsaw**  
  Col. G. Du Plat (British Consul).
- **Washington**  
  Lt. Maury, U.S. Navy.

### Institutions

- **Bombay**  
  Geographical Society.
- **Bonn**  
  University.
- **Bowditch Library**  
  United States.
- **Cambridge**  
  Philosophical Society.
- **Cherkow**  
  University.
- **Falmouth**  
  Royal Cornwall Polytechnic Society.
- **Kiew**  
  University.
- **London**  
  House of Lords, Library.

### London

- House of Commons, Library.
- King's College.
- Royal Society.
- University.
- Moscow University.
- St. Bernard Convent.
- St. Petersburgh Geographical Society.
- Washington Smithsonian Institution.
- Woolwich Office of Mag. and Met. Publication.

### Individuals

- **Bache, Dr. A. D.**  
  Washington.
- **Barlow, P. W., Esq.**  
  Woolwich.
- **Colebrooke, Sir W.**
- **Demidoff, Prince Anatole de**  
  Florence.
- **Dove, Professor**  
  Berlin.
- **Elliot, Capt. C. M.**
- **Erman, Dr. Adolph**  
  Berlin.
- **Fox, R. W., Esq.**  
  Falmouth.
- **Gauss, Professor**  
  Göttingen.
- **Gilliss, Lt. J. M., U.S. Navy**  
  Washington.
- **Harris, Sir W. Snow**  
  Plymouth.
- **Howard, Luke, Esq.**  
  Tottenham.
- **Humboldt, Baron von**  
  Berlin.
- **Kaemtz, Professor**  
  Dorpat.
- **Kupffer, A. T.**  
  St. Petersburgh.
- **Lawson, Henry G., Esq.**  
  Bath.
- **Lloyd, Rev. Dr.**  
  Dublin.
- **Loomis, Professor**  
  New York University.
- **Melvill, J. C., Esq.**  
  East India House.
- **Mentchikoff, Prince**  
  St. Petersburgh.
- **Phillips, John, Esq.**  
  York.
- **Quetelet, A.**  
  Brussels.
- **Redfield, W. C., Esq.**  
  New York.
- **Reid, Col. Sir W., R.E.**  
  Malta.
- **Riddell, Capt., R.A.**  
  Woolwich.
- **Roget, P. M., M.D.**  
  London.
- **Sabine, Colonel, R.A.**  
  Woolwich.
- **Senftenberg, Baron von**  
  Prague.
- **Wartmann, Professor Elie**  
  Geneva.
- **Younghusband, Capt., R.A.**  
  Woolwich.
ROYAL MEDALS.

HER MAJESTY QUEEN VICTORIA, in restoring the Foundation of the Royal Medals, has been graciously pleased to approve the following regulations for the award of them:

That the Royal Medals be given for such papers only as have been presented to the Royal Society, and inserted in their Transactions.

That the triennial Cycle of subjects be the same as that hitherto in operation: viz.
1. Astronomy; Physiology, including the Natural History of Organized Beings.
2. Physics; Geology or Mineralogy.
3. Mathematics; Chemistry.

That, in case no paper, coming within these stipulations, should be considered deserving of the Royal Medal, in any given year, the Council have the power of awarding such Medal to the author of any other paper on either of the several subjects forming the Cycle, that may have been presented to the Society and inserted in their Transactions; preference being given to the subjects of the year immediately preceding: the award being, in such case, subject to the approbation of Her Majesty.

The Council propose to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1852 for the most important paper in Physics, communicated to the Royal Society after the MDCCCLII.
termination of the Session in June 1848, and prior to the termination of the Session in June 1851, and printed in the Philosophical Transactions.

The Council propose also to give one of the Royal Medals in the year 1852 for the most important paper in Geology or Mineralogy, communicated to the Royal Society after the termination of the Session in June 1848, and prior to the termination of the Session in June 1851, and printed in the Philosophical Transactions.
C O N T E N T S.

I. The Bakerian Lecture.—Contributions to the Physiology of Vision.—Part the Second. On some remarkable, and hitherto unobserved, Phenomena of Binocular Vision (continued). By Charles Wheatstone, F.R.S., Professor of Experimental Philosophy in King's College, London, Corresponding Member of the Academies of Science of Paris, Berlin, Brussels, Turin, Rome, Dublin, &c., of the Philosophical Society of Cambridge, the National Institute at Washington, &c.

II. On the Automatic Registration of Magnetometers, and Meteorological Instruments, by Photography.—No. IV. By Charles Brooke, M.B., F.R.S.

III. Experimental Researches in Electricity.—Twenty-eighth Series. By Michael Faraday, Esq., D.C.L., F.R.S., Fullerian Prof. Chem. Royal Institution, Foreign Associate of the Acad. Sciences, Paris, Ord. Boruss. Pour le Mérite, Eq., Memb. Royal and Imp. Acadd. of Sciences, Petersburgh, Florence, Copenhagen, Berlin, Göttingen, Modena, Stockholm, Munich, Bruxelles, Vienna, Bologna, &c. &c.

IV. An Account of two cases, in which Ovules, or their Remains, were discovered in the Fallopian Tubes of Unimpregnated Women who had died during the period of Menstruation. By H. Letheby, M.B., Lond., Lecturer on Chemistry and Medical Jurisprudence in the Medical School of the London Hospital. Communicated by T. B. Curling, Esq., F.R.S.

V. On the Air-Engine. By James Prescott Joule, F.R.S., F.C.S., Corr. Mem. R.A. Turin, Sec. Lit. and Phil. Soc. Manchester, &c.

Additional Note on the Preceding Paper. By William Thomson, M.A., F.R.S., F.R.S.E., Fellow of St. Peter's College, Cambridge, and Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University of Glasgow.

VI. On a General Law of Density in Saturated Vapours. By J. J. Waterston, Esq. Communicated by Lieut.-Col. Sabine, V.P. and Treas.

VII. On the Electro-Chemical Polarity of Gases. By W. R. Grove, Esq., M.A., F.R.S.
VIII. On Periodical Laws discoverable in the mean effects of the larger Magnetic Disturbances.—No. II. By Colonel EDWARD SABINE, R.A., Treas. and V.P.R.S. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 103

IX. On the Lunar Atmospheric Tide at Singapore. By Captain C. M. ELLIOT, Madras Engineers, F.R.S. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125

X. Discovery that the Veins of the Bat's Wing (which are furnished with valves) are endowed with rythmical contractility, and that the onward flow of blood is accelerated by each contraction. By T. WHARTON JONES, F.R.S., Fullerian Professor of Physiology in the Royal Institution of Great Britain, Ophthalmic Surgeon to University College Hospital, Corresponding Member of the Society of Biology of Paris, &c. &c. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 131

XI. Experimental Researches in Electricity.—Twenty-ninth Series. By MICHAEL FARADAY, Esq., D.C.L., F.R.S., Fullerian Prof. Chem. Royal Institution, Foreign Associate of the Acad. Sciences, Paris, Ord. Boruss. Pour le Mérite, Eq., Memb. Royal and Imp. Acadd. of Sciences, Petersburgh, Florence, Copenhagen, Berlin, Göttingen, Modena, Stockholm, Munich, Bruxelles, Vienna, Bologna, &c. &c. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 137

XII. On the Symbolic Forms derived from the Conception of the Translation of a Directed Magnitude. By the Rev. M. O'BRIEN, M.A., late Fellow of Caius College, Cambridge, and Professor of Natural Philosophy and Astronomy in King's College, London . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 161

ERRATA.—Part II. 1851.

In equations 11, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 23, 24, for $H_1 + H_2$ read $H_1 - H_2$.

In equation 19, for $\frac{1}{12} \mu$ read $\frac{1}{24} \mu$.

In page 620, omit the third, fourth and fifth lines.
ADJUDICATION of the Medals of the Royal Society for the year 1852 by the President and Council.

The Copley Medal to Baron Alexander von Humboldt, for his eminent services in Terrestrial Physics during a series of years.

The Royal Medal in the department of Physics, to J. P. Joule, Esq., F.R.S., for his paper "On the Mechanical Equivalent of Heat," printed in the Philosophical Transactions for the year 1850.

The second Royal Medal to T. H. Huxley, Esq., F.R.S., for his paper "On the Anatomy and the Affinities of the Family of the Medusæ," printed in the Philosophical Transactions for the year 1849.

The Rumford Medal to G. G. Stokes, Esq., F.R.S., for his "Discovery of the Change in the Refrangibility of Light."
CONTENTS.

XIII. On the Anatomy of Doris. By Albany Hancock and Dennis Embleton, M.D., F.R.C.S.E., Lecturer on Anatomy and Physiology in the Newcastle-upon-Tyne College of Medicine in connection with the University of Durham. Communicated by Prof. Edward Forbes, F.R.S. ............................................. page 207

XIV. Analytical Researches connected with Steiner's Extension of Malpighi's Problem. By Arthur Cayley, M.A., Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. Communicated by J. J. Sylvester, Esq., F.R.S. ................................................... 253

XV. An Experimental Inquiry undertaken with the view of ascertaining whether any, and what signs of current Force are manifested during the organic process of Secretion in living animals (continued). By H. F. Baxter, Esq. Communicated by Dr. Todd, F.R.S. ................................................................................................. 279

XVI. On the Anatomy of the Stem of Victoria regia. By Arthur Henfrey, F.L.S. Communicated by Professor Edward Forbes, F.R.S. .......................................................... 289

XVII. On the Development of the Ductless Glands in the Chick. By Henry Gray, Esq., F.R.S., Demonstrator of Anatomy at St. George's Hospital. Communicated by William Bowman, Esq., F.R.S. .......................................................... 295

XVIII. Researches on the Geometrical Properties of Elliptic Integrals. By the Rev. James Booth, LL.D., F.R.S. &c. .................................................................................................... 311

XIX. On a New Series of Organic Bodies containing Metals. By Dr. E. Frankland, F.C.S., Professor of Chemistry, Owen's College, Manchester. Communicated by B. C. Brodie, Esq., F.R.S. ......................................................................................... 417
XX. On the Arrangement of the Foliation and Cleavage of the Rocks of the North of Scotland. By Daniel Sharpe, F.R.S., V.P.G.S. . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 445

XXI. On the Change of Refrangibility of Light. By G. G. Stokes, M.A., F.R.S., Fellow of Pembroke College, and Lucasian Professor of Mathematics in the University of Cambridge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 463

XXII. The Reproduction of the Ascaris mystax. By Henry Nelson, M.D. Communicated by Allen Thomson, M.D., F.R.S., Professor of Anatomy in the University of Glasgow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563

XXIII. On the Blood-Proper and Chylaqueous Fluid of Invertebrate Animals. By Thomas Williams, M.D. Lond., Extra Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians, and formerly Demonstrator on Structural Anatomy at Guy's Hospital. Communicated by Thomas Bell, Sec. R.S. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 595

Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 655

Appendix.

Presents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . [ 1 ]