# Part of a Letter from M. de Reaumur F. R. S. to the President, concerning an Earthquake Felt in France, October 11. 1749

**Author(s):** M.De Reaumur  
**Year:** 1749  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions (1683-1775)  
**Volume:** 46  
**Pages:** 3 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-104748  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/104748>  

---

to be there by Accident. It was likewise by mere Accident I came to the Knowledge of what I have just now been describing: Which induces me to imagine, that Shocks of this kind may possibly happen more frequently than is commonly supposed, tho' we hear nothing of them: For, in Country Places, People are so little attentive to such Matters, that, unless some considerable Mischief be done, they mind them very little at the time, and, as soon as over, think no more about them.

I have the Honour to be, with all possible Respect,

SIR,

Catherine-street, May 10. Your most obedient Servant,

H. Baker.

XLl.

Part of a Letter from M. de Reaumur F. R. S. to the President, concerning an Earthquake felt in France, October 11. 1749.

Paris, April 23. 1750.

Read May 17. On Saturday, the 11th of October 1749, about 7 in the Evening, there was an Earthquake in France, which, according to my own Inquiries, reached one Way above 60 Leagues in Extent, from our Coast of Poictou beyond Luçon, as far as the Neighbourhood of Blois.
I was then at my own House at Reaumur, and sitting in a Closet on the Ground-Floor, where I had only notice of it by a Noise like to the Rattling of a Coach over a rough uneven Pavement, which seem'd to grow stronger, as at different Fits, for about a Minute and a half. I went out of my Closet to inquire what others might have felt, as I had not been at all shocked myself, in other Parts of the House; and I met with some Ladies just come in a Fright from the Apartments up one Pair of Stairs; and a learned Father of the Oratoire that was with me, and was just then run down, upon its shaking, from a Turret, on the Top of the House, the Motion of which had very much surprized him.

In the Village several People also felt the Shake; but others, that happened to be employed, were not sensible of it. I was informed, that, in some other Villages and Country-Towns, it was more considerable than where I was; but I did not hear that it did any-where any Mitchief worth speaking of.

XLII.

The Rev. Mr. Wm. Barlow to the President,
concerning a Shock of an Earthquake felt at Plymouth, about One o' Clock in the Morning, between the 8th and 9th of Feb. 1749-50.

SIR,

Read May 24. It is proper to observe, that the following Relations are not made by mean, ignorant, or fanciful People, but by Persons of good Sense,