# Back Matter

**Author(s):** Anonymous  
**Year:** 1815  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London  
**Volume:** 105  
**Pages:** 16 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-107380  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/107380>  

---

PRESENTS

RECEIVED BY THE

ROYAL SOCIETY,

From November 1814 to June 1815.

WITH THE

NAMES OF THE DONORS.

1814.

PRESENTS.

Nov. 10. Dictionnaire Chinois, Français, et Latin, par M. De Guignes. Paris, 1813. fol.

Annales de Mathématiques pures et appliquées, par J. D. Gergonne, et I. E. Thomas Lavernède. Tome I-III, and Tome IV, No. 1—10. Paris, 1810, &c.

Leçons de Mécanique analytique, par M. de Prony. 1. Partie. Paris, 1810.

Astronomie théorique et pratique, par M. Delambre. Paris, 1814. 3 Vols.

Abrégé d’Astronomie ou Leçons élémentaires d’Astronomie théorique et pratique, par M. Delambre. Paris, 1813.

Mémoires de Chirurgie militaire et Campagnes de D. J. Larrey. Paris, 1812. 3 Vols.

Recherches sur le Mouvement des Ondes, par M. N. Th. Bremontier. Paris, 1809.

Journal des Mines, No. 207.

Traité élémentaire du Calcul des Inéquations, par N. F. Canard. Paris, 1808.

Notice sur la Moëlle et l’Etui médullaire des Arbres dicotylédones.

Essai sur la Phénomène de la Vegetation, par M. Feburier. Paris, 1812.

Traité complet théorique et pratique sur les Abeilles, par M. Feburier. Paris, 1810.

Mémoire et Observations sur la Réunion de la Plaie après l’Amputation, par M. Roux. Paris, 1814.

DONORS.

M. De Guignes.

MM. Gergonne, and Lavernède.

M. de Prony.

M. Delambre.

M. Larrey.

M. Bremontier.

Conseil des Mines de France.

M. N. F. Canard.

M. Feburier.

M. Roux.
1814.

Nov. 10. Kongl Vetenskaps Academiens Handlingar för Ar 1813. Stockholm, 1813. 8°

Abhandlungen der Historisch-philologischen Klasse der Königlich Preussischen Akademie der Wissenschaften aus den Jahren, 1804—1811. Berlin, 1814. 4°

De Arragonite ejusque Differentia a Spatho Calcareo rhomboidale Chemica, à F. Stromeier. 4°

Lettre inédite de la Seigneurie de Florence au Pape Sixte 4, 21 Juillet, 1478. 4°

Civil Establishment, a Sermon preached in the Cathedral Church of St. Peter, York, 20th March, 1814, by the Rev. Francis Wrangham. York, 1814. 4°

An Index to the Anatomical, Medical, Chirurgical, and Physiological Papers contained in the Transactions of the Royal Society of London. Westminster, 1814. 4°

Transactions of the Geological Society. Vol. 2. London, 1814. 4°

Elements of Astronomy, by John Brinkley, D.D. Dublin, 1813. 8°

Fan Hy-Cheu, a Tale, in Chinese and English, with Notes, and a short Grammar of the Chinese Language, by Stephen Weston, B.D. London, 1814. 8°

Ensayo Medico Practico sobre el Tifus Icterodes, por el Dr. en Med. et Cir. Don Francisco Flores Moreno. Cadiz. 8°

Leggi antiche di Sicilia. DD. Gius. Eman. Ortolani. Palermo. 12°

Produzioni matematiche dell’ Abbate D. Dionigio Soda. Napoli, 1812. 12°

Soluzione et Dimostrazione del difficilissimo Problema della Trisezione della Linea retta. Napoli, 1813. 12°

Facilitazione del generale Problema della Trisezione angolare. Napoli, 1813. 12°

The Monthly Review from June to October, 1814; and Appendix to Vol. 74.

Annals of Philosophy, No. 20—23.

Philosophical Magazine from July to October, 1814.

The Zoological Miscellany, No. 6—10.

The European Magazine from June to October, 1814.

A Voyage round the World, performed by order of his Imperial Majesty the Emperor of all the Russias, in the Years 1803, 1804, 1805, and 1806, on board the Ships Nadeshda, and Neva, commanded by Capt. Krusenstern, 3 Vols. 4to. In the Russian Language, and an Atlas in fol.

MDCCCXV.

DONORS.

Royal Academy of Sciences at Stockholm.

Royal Academy of Sciences at Berlin.

M. Stromeier.

Hon. Francis Henry Egerton.

Rev. Francis Wrangham.

James Briggs, Esq.

The Geological Society.

Rev. Dr. Brinkley.

Rev. Stephen Weston.

Don Fr. Flo. Moreno.

DD. Gius. Em. Ortolani.

D. Dionigio Soda.

Mr. Griffiths.

Dr. Thomas Thomson.

Mr. Alexander Tilloch.

Dr. W. E. Leach.

The Editor.

Capt. Krusenstern.
1814.

Nov. 10. Mémoire sur une Carte du Détroit de la Sonde, et de la Rade de Batavia, par le Capitaine de Krusenstern. St. Petersburg, 1813. 4to.

Wörter Sammlungen aus den Sprachen einiger Völker des östlichen Asiens und der Nordwestküste von Amerika, bekannt gemacht von A. J. v. Krusenstern. St. Petersburgh, 1813. 4°

17. Notices et Extraits des Manuscrits de la Bibliothèque Imperiale et autres Bibliothèques. Tome IX. Paris, 1813. 4°

Analyse botanique des Embryons endorhizes, par Louis Claude Richard. Paris, 1811. 4°

Essai d'une nouvelle Agrostographie, par A. M. F. Palisot de Beauvois. Paris, 1812. 4°

Lettre de M. Palisot Baron de Beauvois à M. De la Métherie.

Essai sur les Horloges publiques, par Antide Janvier. Paris, 1811. 8°

Des Révolutions des Corps célestes par le Mécanisme de Rouages, par Antide Janvier. Paris, 1812. 4°

Journal des Mines. No. 208.

Histoire des Sectes religieuses, par M. Gregoire. Paris, 1814. 2 Vols. 8°

De la Domesticité chez les Peuples anciens et modernes, par M. Gregoire. Paris, 1814. 8°

Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. Vol. V. London, 1814. 8°

Versuche über die Erwarming verschiedener Korper durch die Sonenstrahlen, von Dr. Carl Wilhelm Boëkman. Karlsruhe, 1811. 8°

Mémoire sur l'Usage de l'Epiglotte dans la Déglutition. Paris, 1813. 8°

Mémoire sur le Vomissement. Paris, 1813. 8°

Mémoire sur les Organes de l'Absorption chez les Mammières. 5°

Expériences pour servir à l'Histoire de la Transpiration pulmonaire. 8°

Examen de l'Action de quelques Vegétaux sur la Moëlle epinière. 8°

De l'Influence de l'Emétique sur l'Homme et les Animaux. Paris, 1813. 8°

24. Sermons preached at St. Paul's Cathedral and other Churches, by the Rev. William Tooke, when Chaplain to the Rt. Hon. the Lord Mayor. 4°

Dec. 8. A Chart of the Indian Ocean, by James Horsburgh, Esq.

Grundriss der Experimental Physick entworfen von Dr. C. W. G. Kastner. Heidelberg, 1810. 2 Vol. 8°

Einleitung in die neuere Chemie. Halle und Berlin, 1814. 8°

Capt. Krusenstern.

The Institute of France.

M. Richard.

Le Baron de Beauvois.

M. Janvier.

Conseil des Mines de France.

Bp. Gregoire.

Medical Chirurgical Society.

Dr. Boëkman.

M. Majendie.

The Rev. W. Tooke.

James Horsburgh, Esq.

Dr. Kastner.
1814.

Dec. 8. The first Report of a Society for preventing Accidents in Coal Mines. Newcastle, 1814. 8°

Annals of Philosophy. No. 24.
Philosophical Magazine for November.
Monthly Review for November.
European Magazine for November.
The Zoological Miscellany. No. 11.

Dec. 15. Magna Britannia. Vol. III. by the Rev. Daniel Lysons and Samuel Lysons, Esq. London, 1814.

Théorie analytique des Probabilités, par le Comte Laplace, 2d edit. Paris, 4°

Déscription de l'Ecole d'Agriculture pratique du Museum d'Histoire Naturelle, par A. Thouin, 4°

Della Natura delle Febbri e del miglior Metodo di curarli, del Dr. Giuseppe Giannini. Milan, 1805. 2 Vols. 8°

Expériences sur la Digestion dans l'Homme, par A. Jenin de Montegre. Paris, 1814. 8°

Objections contre l'Attraction, par G. A. Mareschal. Paris, 1814. 8°

Jan. 12. The Monthly Review for December.
The Philosophical Magazine for December.
Annals of Philosophy No. 25.
The European Magazine for December.
The Naturalist's Miscellany. No. 12.

19. Elements of the Philosophy of the Human Mind, by Dugald Stewart. 2 Vols, Edinburgh, 1814. Vol. I. 8°. Vol. II. 4°.

Philosophical Essays, by Dugald Stewart. Edinburgh, 1810.

Biographical Memoirs of Dr. Adam Smith, Dr. William Robertson, and Dr. Thomas Reid, by Dugald Stewart. Edinburgh, 1811.

Notitia Collectionis insignis Vernium intestinum ab Administratione Reg. Caes. Musei His. Nat. Viennensis. Vienna, 1811. 4° 3 copies.

An Electrical Pile, made by Professor Zamboni at Verona.

Feb. 2. The Speech of Dr. D. Antonio Joseph Ruiz de Padron, relative to the Inquisition.
Bread and Bulls, an Apologetical Oration on the flourishing State of Spain in the Reign of King Charles the IV. by Don Gaspar de Jovellanos. Mediterranean, 1813.

Considerations on the Protection required by British Agriculture, and on the Influence of the Price of Corn on exportable Productions, by William Jacob, F.R.S. London, 1814. 8°

The Zoological Miscellany. No. 13.

3 M 2

DONORS.

The Committee of the Society for preventing Accidents in Coal Mines.

Dr. Thomson.
Mr. A. Tilloch.
Mr. Griffiths.
The Editor.
Dr. W. E. Leach.
Rev. Daniel Lysons and Samuel Lysons, Esq.

The Count Laplace.
M. André Thouin.
Dr. Giov. Giannini.
M.A. Jenin de Montegre.
G. A. Mareschal.
Mr. Griffiths.
Mr. A. Tilloch.
Dr. Thomas Thomson.
The Editor.
Dr. W. E. Leach.
Dugald Stewart, Esq.

The Society of Natural History at Vienna.
James Alexis Doxat, Esq.

Edward Hawke Locker, Esq.

William Jacob, Esq.

Dr. W. E. Leach,
1815.

**PRESENTS.**

Feb. 2. Annals of Philosophy. No. 26.
The Philosophical Magazine for January.
The Monthly Review for January, and Appendix to Vol. 75.
The European Magazine for January.

9. Recherches expérimentales et mathématiques sur les Mouvements des Molécules de la Lumière autour de leur Centre de Gravité, par M. Biot. Paris, 1814.

Astronomisches Jahrbuch für das Jahr 1817.
Berlin, 1814.

16. Religious Establishment, a Sermon preached in the Cathedral Church of St. Peter, York, by the Rev. Francis Wrangham, A.M. York, 1814.

Five Charts of the Survey going on in the China Sea.

Persien und Chili als Pole des Physischen Erdbreite und Leitpunkte zur Kunntniss der Erde. Nürnberg, 1813.

Das Licht vom Orient. Nurnberg, 1808.

Fragmente eines Versuchs über Dynamische Spracherzeugung nach Verleihungen der Persischen Indischen und Teutschen Sprachen und Mythen. Nurnberg, 1813.

Ueber die morgenlandischen Handschriften der Königlichen Hof und Central Bibliothek in München. München, 1814.

De Persidis Lingua et Genio. Norimburgæ, 1809.

Précis des Découvertes Somiologiques de C. S. Rafinesque-Schmaltz. Palermo, 1812.

Denkschriften der Königlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften zu München für das Jahr 1813. Munich, 1814.

Mémoires de l'Académie Impériale des Sciences de St. Petersbourg. Tome IV. St. Petersburg, 1814.

Mar. 2. Annals of Philosophy. No. 27.
Philosophical Magazine for February.
The European Magazine for February.
The Zoological Miscellany. No. 14.

April 6. A Geological Essay on the imperfect Evidence in support of a Theory of the Earth, deducible either from its general Structure, or from the Changes produced on its Surface by the Operation of existing Causes, by J. Kidd, M.D. Oxford, 1815.

Part of the Introductory Lecture for the year 1815, exhibiting some of Mr. Hunter's Opinions respecting Diseases, delivered before the Royal College of Surgeons, London, by John Abernethy. London, 1815.

**DONORS.**

Dr. Thomas Thomson.
Mr. Alexander Tilloch.
Mr. Griffiths.

The Editor.
M. Biot.

Prof. E. Bode.
Rev. F. Wrangham.

The Court of Directors of the East India Company.
Mr. Othmar Frank.

M. C. S. Rafinesque-Schmaltz.
The Royal Academy of Sciences at Munich.

The Imperial Academy of Sciences at St. Petersburgh.
Dr. Thomas Thomson.
Mr. Alexander Tilloch.
The Editor.
Dr. W. E. Leach.
Dr. J. Kidd.

John Abernethy, Esq.
1815.

April 6. Annals of Philosophy. No. 28.
Philosophical Magazine for March.
Monthly Review for March.
European Magazine for March.
The Zoological Miscellany. No. 15.
Mathematical Tables by the Rev. Mr. Allayne Barker. London, 1814.

May 4. Histoire critique de l'Etablissement des Colonies Grecques, par M. Raoul Rochette. Paris, 1815. 4 Vols.

A Treatise Explanatory of the Principles constituting the Practice and Theory of the Violoncello, by John Macdonald, Esq. London, 1811.

An Appendix to ditto. London, 1815.

Travels in the Ionian Isles, Albania, Thessaly, Macedonia, &c. by Henry Holland, M.D. London, 1815.

The Zoological Miscellany, No. 16.
The Monthly Review for April.
Annals of Philosophy, No. 29.
The Philosophical Magazine for April.
The European Magazine for April.

II. Journal des Mines, No. 215, and 216.

Recherches expérimentales anatomiques, chimiques, &c. sur la Physique des Animaux Mammifères hybernans, par M. I. A. Saissy, Paris, 1808.

25. A Common Place Book, formerly belonging to Henry Oldenburg, Esq. Secretary to the Royal Society, at the time of its first institution, MS.

Archaeologiae Americanae Telluris Collectanea et Specimina, part 1st, Philadelphia, 1814.

A Memoir concerning the fascinating Faculty, which has been ascribed to various Species of Serpents, by Professor Barton, Philadelphia, 1814.

Considérations générales sur les Intégrales des Equations aux Différentielles partielles, par M. A. M. Ampere.

De la Fièvre Jaune en général et particulièrement de celle qui régnoit à la Martinique en 1803-4, par le Dr. A. M. T. Savaresy, Naples, 1809.

Journal des Mines, No. 207—213.

Transactions of a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge, Vol. 2. London.

A Fragment of an Ode of Sappho from Longinus; also an Ode of Sappho from Dionysius Halicarn. edited by the Hon. Francis Henry Egerton. Paris. March, 1815.

Dr. Thomas Thomson.
Mr. Alexander Tillock.
Mr. Griffiths.
The Editor.
Dr. W. E. Leach.
Rev. Mr. Barker.

M. Raoul Rochette.

John Macdonald, Esq.

Dr. Holland.

Dr. Leach.
Mr. Griffiths.
Dr. Thomson.
Mr. A. Tillock.
The Editor.
Conseil des Mines de France.
M. Saissy.

The Earl of Morton.

Professor Barton.

M. A. M. Ampere.

Dr. Savaresy.

Conseil des Mines de France.
Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge.
Hon. Francis Henry Egerton.
1815.

May 25. A Practical Treatise on Gas Light, by Frederic Accum. London, 1815. 8°

June 1. The Hunterian Oration delivered in the Theatre of the Royal College of Surgeons, by Sir William Blizard, London, 1815. 4°

Dissertatio Medica Inauguralis de Liene, Auct. A. Sayer, Lug. Bat. 1815. 4°

Philosophical Magazine for May.

Annals of Philosophy, No. 30.

Monthly Review for May, and Appendix to Vol. 76.

Zoological Miscellany, No. 17.

The European Magazine for May.

A List of the Members of the Royal Geological Society of Cornwall. Penzance, 1815. 4°

8. Commentationes Societatis Regiae Scientiarum Gottingensis Recentiores. Vol. II. Gottingae, 1813. 4°

L'Egypte sous les Pharaons, ou Recherches sur la Geographie, la Religion, la Langue, les Ecritures, et l'Histoire de l'Egypte avant l'Invasion de Cambysse, par M. Champollion le Jeune. Paris, 1814. 2 Vols. 8vo.

15. Materia Medica of Hindoostan, and Artisan's and Agriculturist's Nomenclature. Madras, 1813. 4°

Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society, Vol. I. Edinburgh, 1814. 8°

15. An Appendix to a Philosophical Treatise on the Hereditary Peculiarities of the Human Race, by Joseph Adams, M.D. London, 1815. 8°

Donors.

Mr. Accum.

Sir William Blizard.

Rev. Robert Nixon.

Mr. Alex. Tilloch.

Dr. Thos. Thomson.

Mr. Griffiths.

Dr. W. E. Leach.

The Editor.

Dr. Paris.

The Royal Academy of Sciences at Gottingen.

M. Champollion.

Dr. Whitelaw Ainslie.

The Caledonian Horticultural Society.

Dr. Joseph Adams.
INDEX

TO THE

PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS

FOR THE YEAR 1815.

A

Acid, on the nature and combinations of a newly discovered vegetable one; with observations on the malic acid, and suggestions on the state in which acids may have previously existed in vegetables,

— malic observations on it,

— oxyiodic, a term proposed to be given to that which the compound of iodine and oxygene forms with water,

— prussic, analysis of it,

— sorbic, a term applied to a new one obtained from the berries of the Sorbus Aucuparia,

Acids, on their action on the salts usually called hyperoxymuriates, and on the gases produced from them,

— farther analytical experiments relative to the constitution of the prussic, of the ferruretted chyazic, and of the sulphuretted chyazic; and to that of their salts; together with an application of the atomic theory to the analyses of those bodies,

— suggestions concerning the state in which they may previously have existed in vegetables,

Ancients, on the colours used by them in painting,

Aphrodita aculeata, its respiratory organs described,

Apoplexy, the excitability of the muscles of voluntary motion not impaired in that disease,

Atmosphere, on its dispersive power, and its effect on astronomical observations,
INDEX.

B

Babbage, C., Esq. An essay towards the calculus of functions, 389
Barita, an easy method of procuring it pure, by means of chlorionic acid, 211
Brewster, David, LL.D., additional observations on the optical properties and structure of heated glass and unannealed glass drops,
Experiments on the depolarisation of light as exhibited by various mineral, animal, and vegetable bodies, with a reference of the phenomena to the general principles of polarisation, 29
On the effects of simple pressure in producing that species of crystallization which forms two oppositely polarised images, and exhibits the complementary colours by polarised light, 60
On the laws which regulate the polarisation of light by reflection from transparent bodies, 125
On the multiplication of images, and the colours which accompany them, in some specimens of calcareous spar, 270
Bridlington, on an ebbing and flowing stream discovered by boring in the harbour of that place, 54

C

Calcareous spar, on the cause of the multiplication of the images in it, 278
on the cause of the colours with which the images are affected in it, 282
Carp, experiments on them, 91
Chaptal, M. His paper published in the 70th Volume of "Annales de Chimie," p. 22, referred to, 99, 115
Children, John George, Esq. An account of some experiments with a large voltaic battery, 363
Clift, Mr. William, Experiments to ascertain the influence of the spinal marrow on the action of the heart in fishes, 91
Colours, complementary, description of new instruments for exhibiting them, 287
black and brown, on those used by the Ancients in painting, 116
INDEX

Colours, blue, on those used by the Ancients, - 105
—— green, on those used by ditto, - 109
—— purple, on those used by ditto, - 112
—— red, on those used by ditto, - 101
—— white, on those used by ditto, - 118
—— yellow, on those used by ditto, - 104
—— on the manner in which the Ancients applied them, - 118
—— on some phenomena of them exhibited by thin plates, - 161
Current, some observations on that which often prevails to the westward of the Scilly islands, - 182

D

Davy, Sir Humphry. Some experiments and observations on the colours used in painting by the Ancients, - 97
—— —— —— Some experiments on a solid compound of iodine and oxygen, and on its chemical agencies, - 203
—— —— —— On the action of acids on the salts usually called hyperoxymuriates, and on the gases produced from them, - 214
Donovan, M., Esq. On the nature and combinations of a newly discovered acid; with observations on the malic acid, and suggestions on the state in which acids may have previously existed in vegetables, - 231

E

Equations, functional, on those of the second and higher orders, - 409

F

Fishes, experiments to ascertain the influence of the spinal marrow on the action of the heart in them, - 91
Functions, an essay towards the calculus of them, - 389
—— arbitrary, on the number of them introduced into the complete solution of a functional equation, - 408

G

Georgian planet, observations of its satellites, accompanied by a theoretical determination of their situation, whereby their identity may be ascertained, - 304

MDCCCXV. 3 N
INDEX.

Glass, heated, and unannealed glass drops, on their optical properties and structure, 1
——— annealed flint, its specific gravity measured, 3
Glass drop, unannealed flint, its specific gravity ascertained, 3
Glass drops, unannealed, the best method of obtaining them entire, pointed out, 6

H

Hastings, Mr. Effect of his experiment of immersing the hind legs of a frog in tincture of opium, 75
Heart, experiments made with a view to ascertain the principle on which its action depends, and the relation which subsists between that organ and the nervous system, 65
——— its action may be influenced by agents applied to any considerable portion of the brain or spinal marrow, 78
——— its power independent of the brain and spinal marrow, 78
——— retains its power after the brain and spinal marrow are removed, 84
——— is influenced by every part of the nervous system, 436

Herschel, William, LL.D. A series of observations of the satellites of the Georgian planet, including a passage through the node of their orbits; with an introductory account of the telescopic apparatus that has been used on this occasion; and a final exposition of some calculated particulars deduced from the observations, 293

Home, Sir Everard, Bart. On the structure of the organs of respiration in animals which appear to hold an intermediate place between those of the class pisces and the class vermes, and in two genera of the last mentioned class, 256
——— On the mode of generation of the lamprey and myxine, 265

I

Iceland spar, on the phenomena exhibited by particular specimens of it, 271
Jellies, animal, effects of pressure on them, 61
Images, on their multiplication, and the colours which accompany them, in some specimens of calcareous spar, 270
Involution and evolution of numbers, description of a new instrument for performing them mechanically, 9
INDEX.

Iodine and oxygene, some experiments on a solid compound of them, and on its chemical agencies, - 203

K

Knox, John, Esq. On some phenomena of colours exhibited by thin plates, - 161

L

Lamprey, its organs of respiration described, - 257
Lamprey and myxine, on their mode of generation, - 265
Lee, Mr. Stephen, on the dispersive power of the atmosphere, and its effect on astronomical observations, - 375
Leech, common, its respiratory organs described, - 259
Le Gallois, M. remarks on some of his experiments contained in a treatise entitled, "Expériences sur la principe de la Vie, &c." - 87

Light, experiments on its depolarisation as exhibited by various mineral, animal, and vegetable bodies, with a reference of the phenomena to the general principles of polarisation, - 29
—- a list of substances chiefly of animal and vegetable origin, which have no effect in depolarising it, - 43
—- theory of its depolarisation, - 44
—- on the laws which regulate its polarisation by reflection from transparent bodies, - 125
—- on the laws of its polarisation by reflection from the first surfaces of transparent bodies, - 130
—- on the laws of its polarisation by reflection from the second surfaces of transparent bodies, - 134
—- on the laws of its polarisation by reflection from the separating surfaces of different media, - 139
—- on the law of its polarisation by successive reflections, - 142
—- on the nature and origin of that, apparently unpolarised, which exists at the maximum polarising angle, - 152

M

Milne, Mr. his hypothesis respecting the ebbing and flowing stream discovered by boring in the harbour of Bridlington, - 57
Mural circle, a table of observations made with it, compared with those of Dr. Bradley in the year 1756, - 387
INDEX.

Myxine, its respiratory organs described, - - - 258

N

Nervous and sanguiferous systems, some additional experiments and observations on the relation which subsists between them, - - - - 424

O

Opium, its effect when applied to the brain, - - - 74
Oxyiodine, a term proposed to be given to the new solid compound of iodine and oxygene, - - - 212

P

Philip, A. P. Wilson, M.D. Experiments made with a view to ascertain the principle on which the action of the heart depends, and the relation which subsists between that organ and the nervous system, - - - 65
Some additional experiments and observations on the relation which subsists between the nervous and sanguiferous systems, - - - 424
Plane, interrupting, its position and character in calcareous spar, - - - 275
Pond, John, Esq. Determination of the North Polar Distances and proper motion of thirty fixed Stars, - - - 384
Porrett, Robert, Esq. Farther analytical experiments relative to the constitution of the prussic, of the ferruretted chyazic, and of the sulphuretted chyazic acids; and to that of their salts; together with the application of the atomic theory to the analyses of those bodies, - - - 220
Presents, a list of those made to the Royal Society from November 1814 to June 1815, - - - 448
Pressure, simple. on its effects in producing that species of crystallization which forms two oppositely polarised images, and exhibits the complementary colours by polarised light, - - - 60
Prussiate of mercury, analysis of it, - - - 221

R

Rabbits and frogs, series of experiments on them to ascertain the principle on which the action of the heart depends, - - - 68
INDEX.

Rennell, James, Esq. Some farther observations on the current that often prevails to the westward of the Scilly Islands, 182

Respiration, organs of, on their structure in animals which appear to hold an intermediate place between those of the class pisces and the class vermes, and in two genera of the last mentioned class, 256

Roget, Peter M., M.D. Description of a new instrument for performing mechanically the involution and evolution of numbers, 9

S

Satellites, the method of identifying them, 351
their periodical revolutions determined, 348
consideration of the principles by which their periodical revolution may be obtained from the observed angles of position, 345
a series of observations of those of the Georgian planet, including a passage through the node of their orbit; with an introductory account of the telescopic apparatus that has been used on this occasion; and a final exposition of some calculated particulars deduced from the observations, 293

Scilly Islands, some farther observations on the current that often prevails to the westward of them, 182

Sliding rule, a proposition pointed out that leads directly to the solution of every case to which that instrument can be applied, 13

Spinal marrow, experiments to ascertain its influence on the action of the heart in fishes, 91

Spirit of wine, its effects when applied to the spinal marrow and brain, 74
its effect upon the action of the heart, when applied to the surface, or inserted into the substance of the brain, 427

Stars, fixed, determination of the North Polar Distances, and proper motion, of thirty of them, 384

Storer, John, M.D. On an ebbing and flowing stream discovered by boring in the harbour of Bridlington, 54
INDEX.

T

Table, showing the angles at which a pencil of light is polarised by any number of reflections at the same angle, 145
Table, containing the calculated and observed polarising angles for various bodies, 128
Tobacco, its effect when applied to the brain, 74

V

Voltaic battery; an account of some experiments with one of large dimensions, 363