# An Extract of a Letter, Written by Monsieur Denys Novemb. 17. Last from Paris Concerning an Odd Faetus Lately Born there; English't Out of French

**Author(s):** Monsieur Denys  
**Year:** 1673  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions (1665-1678)  
**Volume:** 8  
**Pages:** 2 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-101387  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/101387>  

---

were 16, yet differing in size. The rest were very small, to the number of 22. The bladder being display'd, we found not a drop of Urin in it, but it had already made, on the side of the orifice of the bladder, an opening of a considerable bigness; upon which, death necessarily ensued. In the Kidneys and Ureters there could not be found the least grain or mark of sand.

An Extract of a Letter, written by Monsieur Denys Novemb. 17. last from Paris concerning an odd fetus lately born there; English't out of French.

SIR,

A few days since, I was called to a sick woman, brought to bed that very day I went to see her. After I had prescribed the physick I judged necessary for the mother, I asked for the child, which died, I heard, as soon as 'twas born. The Body of it appeared outwardly very well form'd and very fat; but the head was so deform'd, that it frighted all that were present. It had no front; the two eyes were on the top of the face, very big, and almost without an orbit to lodge them in. The upper and hind-part of the Head was red like coagulated blood, and resembled the bottom of a Calves-head when cut and sever'd from the Vertebra's of the neck. I had the curiosity to examine this red flesh, and I found under it a Bone, that was not a hollow skull, but a solid bone in the form of a small oyster. I had it opened every way; but I found no hollowness nor brains in it. This bone was only fasten'd before to the bones of the face, and not behind to the vertebra's of the neck; so that the marrow of the back-bone had no communication with the head. I pursued the Optic nerves, and lost them in this bone, which was in lieu of the cranium, and was not at all spungy, but very hard. It seems to me somewhat extraordinary, that a child should be able to live nine months without brains; for I was inform'd, that it was very lively and brisk in the mothers belly, but died as soon as it came into the Air.