# Front Matter

**Author(s):** Anonymous  
**Year:** 1829  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London  
**Volume:** 119  
**Pages:** 35 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-107760  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/107760>  

---

ADVERTISEMENT.

The Committee appointed by the Royal Society to direct the publication of the Philosophical Transactions, take this opportunity to acquaint the Public, that it fully appears, as well from the council-books and journals of the Society, as from repeated declarations which have been made in several former Transactions, that the printing of them was always, from time to time, the single act of the respective Secretaries, till the Forty-seventh Volume: the Society, as a Body, never interesting themselves any further in their publication, than by occasionally recommending the revival of them to some of their Secretaries, when, from the particular circumstances of their affairs, the Transactions had happened for any length of time to be intermitted. And this seems principally to have been done with a view to satisfy the Public, that their usual meetings were then continued, for the improvement of knowledge, and benefit of mankind, the great ends of their first institution by the Royal Charters, and which they have ever since steadily pursued.

But the Society being of late years greatly enlarged, and their communications more numerous, it was thought advisable that a Committee of their members should be appointed, to reconsider the papers read before them, and select out of them such as they should judge most proper for publication in the future Transactions; which was accordingly done upon the 26th of March 1752. And the grounds of their choice are, and will continue to be, the importance and singularity of the subjects, or the advantageous manner of treating them; without pretending to answer for the certainty of the facts, or propriety of the reasonings, contained in the several papers so published, which must still rest on the credit or judgment of their respective authors.

It is likewise necessary on this occasion to remark, that it is an established rule of the Society, to which they will always adhere, never to give their opinion,
as a Body, upon any subject; either of Nature or Art, that comes before them. And therefore the thanks, which are frequently proposed from the Chair, to be given to the authors of such papers as are read at their accustomed meetings, or to the persons through whose hands they received them, are to be considered in no other light than as a matter of civility, in return for the respect shown to the Society by those communications. The like also is to be said with regard to the several projects, inventions, and curiosities of various kinds, which are often exhibited to the Society; the authors whereof, or those who exhibit them, frequently take the liberty to report, and even to certify in the public newspapers, that they have met with the highest applause and approbation. And therefore it is hoped, that no regard will hereafter be paid to such reports and public notices; which in some instances have been too lightly credited, to the dishonour of the Society.
CONTENTS.

I. The Bakerian Lecture.—On a method of rendering Platina malleable. By William Hyde Wollaston, M.D. F.R.S. .................................................. 1

II. A description of a Microscopic Doublet. By William Hyde Wollaston, M.D. F.R.S. ................................................................. 9

III. An account of some experiments on the Torpedo. By Sir Humphry Davy, Bart. F.R.S. ................................................................. 15

IV. On a method of comparing the light of the sun with that of the fixed stars. By William Hyde Wollaston, M.D. F.R.S. ........................................... 19

V. On the water of the Mediterranean. By William Hyde Wollaston, M.D. F.R.S. ................................................................. 29

VI. An account of the preliminary experiments and ultimate construction of a refracting telescope of 7.8 inches aperture, with a fluid concave lens. In a letter addressed to Davies Gilbert, Esq. President of the Royal Society. By Peter Barlow, Esq. F.R.S. .............................................. 33

VII. On the dip of the magnetic needle in London, in August 1828. By Captain Edward Sabine of the Royal Artillery, Secretary of the Royal Society 47

VIII. Remarks on the tendency to Calculous Diseases; with observations on the nature of urinary concretions, and an analysis of a large part of the collection belonging to the Norfolk and Norwich Hospital. By John Yelloly, M.D. F.R.S. ................................................................. 55

IX. Experiments to determine the difference in the number of vibrations made by an Invariable Pendulum in the Royal Observatory at Greenwich, and in the house in London in which Captain Kater's experiments were made. By Captain Edward Sabine of the Royal Artillery, Secretary of the Royal Society. Communicated by the President and Council . . . 83
X. On a definite arrangement, and order of the appearance and progress, of the Aurora Borealis; and on its height above the surface of the earth. In a letter to Davies Gilbert, Esq. M.P. President of the Royal Society. By the Rev. James Farquharson, Minister of the Parish of Alford, Aberdeenshire ........................................... page 103

XI. Observations on the functions of the Intestinal canal and Liver of the human Fœtus. By Robert Lee, M.D., Physician to the British Lying-in-Hospital. Communicated by Dr. Prout, F.R.S. .................................................. 121

XII. Experiments on the modulus of Torsion. By Benjamin Bevan, Esq. Communicated by the President .......................................................... 127

XIII. On a Differential Barometer. By the late William Hyde Wollaston, M.D. F.R.S. Communicated by Henry Warburton, Esq. F.R.S. .................................................. 133

XIV. Some observations relating to the function of digestion. By A. P. W. Philip, M.D. F.R.S. L. & E. .......................................................... 137

XV. Experiments on the friction and abrasion of the surfaces of solids. By George Rennie, Esq. F.R.S. .......................................................... 143

XVI. An attempt to rectify the inaccuracy of some logarithmic formulæ. By John Thomas Graves, of the Inner Temple, Esq. Communicated by John Frederick William Herschel, Esq. V.P. .................................................. 171

XVII. On the reflexion and decomposition of light at the separating surfaces of media of the same and of different refractive powers. By David Brewster, LL.D. F.R.S. L. & E. .......................................................... 187

XVIII. On the reduction to a vacuum of the vibrations of an Invariable Pendulum. By Captain Edward Sabine of the Royal Artillery, Secretary of the Royal Society. Communicated by Dr. Thomas Young, Secretary of the late Board of Longitude .......................................................... 207

Appendix.

Meteorological Journal kept at the Apartments of the Royal Society, by order of the President and Council.
The President and Council of the Royal Society adjudged the Medals for the year 1828 as follows.

A Royal Medal to Professor Johann Friedrich Encke of Berlin, Foreign Member of the Royal Society, for his accurate determination of the orbit of a comet of short period, as confirmed by observation.

A Royal Medal to Dr. William Hyde Wollaston, Fellow of the Royal Society, for his communication entitled "On a method of rendering Platina malleable," being the conclusion of a series of researches on the properties of the metallic bodies contained in the ores of platina.
CONTENTS.

XIX. Consideration of the objections raised against the geometrical representation of the square roots of negative quantities. By the Rev. John Warren, M.A. of Jesus College, Cambridge. Communicated by Thomas Young, M.D. Foreign Secretary to the Royal Society. . . . page 241

XX. Anatomical description of the foot of a Chinese female. By Bransby Blake Cooper, Esq., Surgeon to Guy's Hospital. Communicated by Peter Mark Roget, M.D., Secretary to the Royal Society. . . . 255

XXI. Some observations on the functions of the nervous system, and the relation which they bear to the other vital functions. By Alexander Philip Wilson Philip, M.D. F.R.S. L. & E. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 261

XXII. On the respiration of birds. By William Allen and William Hasledine Pepys, Esqrs. Fellows of the Royal Society. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279

XXIII. On the spontaneous purification of Thames water. By John Bostock, M.D. F.R.S. &c. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287

XXIV. On the composition of chloride of barium. By Dr. Edward Turner, Professor of Chemistry in the University of London. Communicated by Dr. Dionysius Lardner, Fellow of the Royal Society. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 291

XXV. On a new series of periodical colours produced by the grooved surfaces of metallic and transparent bodies. By David Brewster, L.L.D. F.R.S. L. & E. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301

XXVI. On the Nerves of the Face; being a second paper on that subject. By Charles Bell, Esq. Fellow of the Royal Society. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 317
XXVII. On the reduction to a vacuum of Captain Kater's convertible pendulum.
   By Captain Edward Sabine, of the Royal Artillery, Secretary to the
   Royal Society. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331

XXVIII. On the geometrical representation of the powers of quantities, whose
    indices involve the square roots of negative quantities. By the Rev. John
    Warren, M.A. late Fellow and Tutor of Jesus College, Cambridge.
    Communicated by the President. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 339

XXIX. An experimental examination of the electric and chemical theories of
     galvanism. By William Ritchie, M.A. F.R.S., Rector of the Royal
     Academy of Tain. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361

Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 367

APPENDIX.

Presents received by the Royal Society, from 20th November 1828, to 18th
June 1829.

Meteorological Journal kept at the Apartments of the Royal Society, by order of
the President and Council.
A List of Public Institutions and Individuals, entitled to receive a copy of the Philosophical Transactions of each year, on making application for the same directly or through their respective agents, within five years of the date of publication.

In the British Dominions.
The King's Library.
The British Museum.
The Bodleian Library.
The Radcliffe Library.
The Cambridge University Library.
The Royal Institution.
The Royal College of Physicians.
The Royal Observatory at Greenwich.
The Society of Antiquaries of London.
The Society for the Encouragement of Arts.
The Astronomical Society of London.
The Cambridge University Philosophical Society.
The Royal Artillery Library at Woolwich.
The Geological Society of London.
The Horticultural Society of London.
The Linnean Society of London.
The University of Dublin.
The Royal Irish Academy.
The Library of Trinity College, Dublin.
The Observatory at Armagh.
The Dublin Society.
The University of Edinburgh.
The Royal Society of Edinburgh.
The University of St. Andrews.
The University of Aberdeen.
The University of Glasgow.
The Asiatic Society at Calcutta.

Denmark.
The Royal Society of Sciences at Copenhagen.
The Royal Observatory at Altona.

France.
The Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris.
The Royal Academy of Sciences at Thoulouse.

The "Ecole des Mines" at Paris.
The Geographical Society at Paris.

Germany.
The University at Göttingen.
The Caesarean Academy of Naturalists at Bonn.

Italy.
The Italian Society of Sciences at Modena.
The Royal Academy of Sciences at Turin.

The Netherlands.
The Imperial Academy of Sciences at Brussels.

Portugal.
The Royal Academy of Sciences at Lisbon.

Prussia.
The Royal Academy of Sciences at Berlin.

Russia.
The Imperial Academy of Sciences at St. Petersburg.

Sweden.
The Royal Academy of Sciences at Stockholm.

United States.
The American Philosophical Society at Philadelphia.
The New York Philosophical Society.
The Boston Philosophical Society.
The Library of Harvard College.
The fifty Foreign Members of the Royal Society.

MDCCCXXIX.
A List of Public Institutions and Individuals entitled to receive a copy of the Astronomical Observations made at the Royal Observatory at Greenwich, upon application for the same directly or through their respective Agents.

In the British Dominions.

The King's Library.
The Board of Ordnance.
The British Museum.
The Royal Society.
The Bodleian and Savilian Libraries, Oxford.
The Library of Trinity College, Cambridge.
The King's Observatory at Richmond.
The Observatory at Armagh.
The Observatory at Cambridge.
The Observatory at the Cape of Good Hope.
The Observatory at Dublin.
The Observatory at Oxford.
The Observatory at Paramatta.
The University of Aberdeen.
The University of St. Andrews.
The University of Dublin.
The University of Edinburgh.
The University of Glasgow.
The Astronomical Society.
The Royal Institution.
The President of the Royal Society.
The Lowndes' and Plumian Professors of Astronomy, Cambridge.
The Lord Bishop of Cloyne.
Francis Baily, Esq.
Thomas Henderson, Esq.
Captain W. H. Smyth, R.N.
James South, Esq.
Edward Troughton, Esq.

In Foreign Countries.

The Royal Academy of Sciences at Berlin.
The Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris.
The Imperial Academy of Sciences at St. Petersburg.
The Royal Academy of Sciences at Stockholm.
The Royal Academy of Sciences at Upsal.
The Board of Longitude at Paris.
The University of Göttingen.
The University of Leyden.
The Academy of Bologna.
The American Academy of Science at Boston.
The American Philosophical Society at Philadelphia.
The Library of Harvard College.
The Observatory at Åbo.
The Observatory at Altona.
The Observatory at Brussels.
The Observatory at Cadiz.
The Observatory at Coimbra.
The Observatory at Copenhagen.
The Observatory at Dorpat.
The Observatory at Königsberg.
The Observatory at Marseilles.
The Observatory at Milan.
The Observatory at Paris.
The Observatory at Seeberg.
The Observatory at Vienna.
The Observatory at Wilna.
Professor Bessel.
Dr. William Olbers.
INDEX

TO THE

PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS

FOR THE YEAR 1829.

A.

Abrasion. Experiments on the resistance to abrasion of the surfaces of solids under different circumstances of pressure and velocity, 159.

Allen (William, Esq.). On the respiration of birds, 279 et seq.

Aurora Borealis. Description of several in Aberdeenshire, 105 et seq.

Its height above the earth discussed, 113.

B.

Barium. On the composition of its chloride, 291 et seq.

Barlow (Peter, Esq.). His account of a refracting telescope of 7.8 inches aperture, with a fluid concave lens, 33 et seq.

Barometer. A differential barometer described, 133 et seq.

Bell (Charles, Esq.). On the nerves of the face, 317 et seq.

Bevan (Benjamin, Esq.). Experiments on the modulus of torsion, 127 et seq.

Birds. More sensible than other animals to the stimulus of oxygen, 286.

Bostock (John, M.D.). On the spontaneous purification of Thames water, 287 et seq.

Brewster (David, LL.D.). On the reflection and decomposition of light at the separating surfaces of media of the same, and of different refractive powers, 187 et seq.

On a new series of periodical colours produced by the grooved surfaces of metallic and transparent bodies, 301 et seq.

C.

Calculi. Analysis of several belonging to the Norfolk and Norwich Hospital, 69 et seq.

Chinese female foot. Its anatomical description, 255 et seq.

Colours. Table of colours produced at the separating surfaces of plate glass and various oils and other fluids, 196.
Colours. Periodical colours produced by the grooved surfaces of metallic and transparent bodies, 301 et seq.

Cooper (Bransby Blake, Esq.). Anatomical description of the foot of a Chinese female, 255 et seq.

D.

Dalton (John, Esq.). Objections to Mr. Dalton's estimate of the height of the aurora borealis, 116.

Davy (Sir Humphry, Bart.). Experiments on the torpedo, 15 et seq.

Digestion. On the functions of the stomach in digestion, 137 et seq.

F.

Farquharson (Rev. James). On a definite arrangement and order of the appearance and progress of the aurora borealis, and of its height above the surface of the earth, 103 et seq.

Friction. Experiments on the friction of attrition of solids, 150 et seq.

G.

Galvanism. Its employment recommended in diseases arising from a failure of the nervous power, 278.

——— Electric and chemical theories examined, 361 et seq.

Graves (John Thomas, Esq.). An attempt to rectify the inaccuracy of some logarithmic formulae, 171 et seq.

H.

Hydrogen gas. Vibrations of a pendulum in hydrogen gas, 227 et seq.

L.

Lee (Robert, M.D.). On the functions of the intestinal canal and liver of the human foetus, 121 et seq.

Lens (fluid). Of 7.8 inches aperture, employed in a telescope, 33 et seq.

Light. Of Sirius and the Sun compared, 23.

——— Experiments on reflected light, 187 et seq.

M.

Magnetism. Dip of the needle in London in 1828, 52.

——— Annual decrease of the Dip in London diminishing, 53.

Mediterranean. More salt at great depths than the ocean generally, 30.

Microscopes. Observations on, 9 et seq.

Nerves. On the functions of the nervous system, 261 et seq.

——— On the nerves of the face, 317 et seq.
O.

Osmium. Method of obtaining its oxide in a pure solid and crystallized state, 8.

P.

Palladium. Method of obtaining it malleable, 7.
Pendulum (Convertible). On the reduction to a vacuum of Captain Kater's pendulum, 331 et seq.
——— (Invariable). Its comparative vibration in air and in a vacuum, 236.
——— Its retardation by atmospheric air and by hydrogen gas not strictly proportionate to their respective densities, 231.
——— (Seconds). Its comparative rate at London and Greenwich, 87.
Pepys (William Hasledyne, Esq.). On the respiration of birds, 279 et seq.
Philip (Alexander Philip Wilson, M.D.). On the functions of digestion, 137 et seq.
——— On the functions of the nervous system, and on their relation to other vital functions, 261 et seq.
Platina. On a method of rendering it malleable, 1 et seq.
——— Its tenacity and specific gravity, 6 & 7.

Q.

Quantities (algebraic). Capable of geometrical representation, 340.
——— (negative). On the geometrical representation of their square roots, 241 et seq.

R.

Rennie (George, Esq.). Experiments on the friction and abrasion of the surfaces of solids, 143 et seq.
Respiration. Of pigeons in atmospheric air, pure oxygen, and a mixture of hydrogen and oxygen, 279 et seq.
Ritchie (William, M.A.). Experimental examination of the electric and chemical theories of galvanism, 361 et seq.

S.

Sabine (Captain Edward). On the dip of the magnetic needle in London in August 1828, 47 et seq.
——— Comparison of the seconds pendulum in London and Greenwich, 83 et seq.
——— Reduction to a vacuum of an invariable pendulum, 207 et seq.
——— Notice on the reduction to a vacuum of Captain Kater's pendulum, 331 et seq.
Sapphire Lens. Its superiority over every single lens hitherto employed for microscopes, 9.
Sirius. Its light compared with that of the Sun, 23.
Sun. Its light compared with Sirius, 23; with a candle, 27; with the Moon, 27.

MDCCCXXIX.
INDEX.

T.

Telescope. Constructed with a fluid concave lens of 7.8 inches aperture, described, 36.
Thames. On the spontaneous purification of its water, 287 et seq.
Torpedo. Experiments on the torpedo, 15 et seq.
Torsion. Table of the modulus of torsion of various woods, 129, 130.
——— Table of the modulus of torsion of various metals, 131.
TURNER (Dr. EDWARD). On the composition of chloride of barium, 291 et seq.

V.

Vacuum. On the reduction to a vacuum of the vibrations of pendulums, 207 & 331.

W.

WARREN (Rev. JOHN). Consideration of the objections against the geometrical representation of the square roots of negative quantities, 241 et seq.
——— On the geometrical representation of the powers of quantities whose indices involve the square roots of negative quantities, 339 et seq.
Water of the Mediterranean. Salter at considerable depths than that of the ocean generally, 30.
Water of the Thames. Its spontaneous purification, 287 et seq.
WOLLASTON (WILLIAM HYDE, M.D.). On a method of rendering platina malleable, 1 et seq.
——— Description of a microscopic doublet, 9 et seq.
——— On a method of comparing the light of the Sun with that of the fixed Stars, 19 et seq.
——— On the water of the Mediterranean, 29 et seq.
——— On a differential barometer, 133 et seq.

Y

YELLOLY, (JOHN, M.D.). Remarks on the tendency to calculous diseases; with observations on the nature of urinary concretions, 55 et seq.

LONDON:
PRINTED BY RICHARD TAYLOR,
RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
MDCCCXXIX.
Extracts from the Minutes of Council.

(Printed by Order of the President and Council.)

June 26, 1828.—The following alteration in the Statutes, having been duly proposed, was put to the Ballot, and carried:

That at the end of the 3rd Section of the 1st Chapter of the Statutes, which relates to the Election of a Prince of the Blood Royal, or a Peer of the United Kingdom, or one of His Majesty's Privy Council, or for a Prince, or the son of a Sovereign Prince, be added the following words:—viz.

"Notice of such intention having been publicly announced by a Member at the preceding Meeting of the Society."

June 29, 1829.—The following alteration in the Statutes, having been duly proposed at a former Meeting, was this day declared by Ballot in the Affirmative; namely, Sections II, III, IV and V of Chapter III, were repealed, and the following Sections substituted, leaving Section I of the same Chapter unaltered.

Section II.

"Every person elected a Fellow on the Home List, shall, besides the Admission Money, further contribute to the use of the Society, previous to his Admission, the sum of Forty Pounds, excepting in cases wherein the Council shall grant leave for the substitution of a payment after the rate of One Pound per Quarter to the Society as long as he shall continue a Fellow thereof; such payments to commence and become payable on the quarter day next succeeding the time of his election."

Section III.

"Every Fellow paying Annual Contributions, may at any time compound for his future contributions, by paying a sum equal to ten times the amount of his annual contribution."
AMENDED STATUTES.

SECTION IV.

"For greater convenience in receiving and collecting the periodical contributions from Fellows, the same shall be paid yearly to the twenty-fifth day of March; and in proportion for a part of a year, by any person elected after the beginning, or withdrawing from the Society before the end, of the year."

SECTION V.

"Every Fellow of the Society liable to the payment of Annual Contributions, shall, previously to the twenty-fifth day of March in every year, bring or send to the Treasurer, or his Deputy, his yearly Contribution, or such proportion of it as shall be then due. And if any such Fellow shall fail to bring or send in the same as aforesaid before the first day of May next following, his name shall be suspended in the Public Meeting Room of the Society, as being in arrear of Contribution, and shall continue so suspended until the Contribution so due be paid. And if any such Fellow shall fail to bring or send in his arrears for the preceding year on or before the Meeting of the Society next preceding St. Andrew's Day, and if no satisfactory reason be then assigned to the President and Council for the non-payment of such arrears, he shall cease to be a Fellow of the Society. Provided, nevertheless, that on a solicitation for re-admission being addressed to the President and Council, by an individual so circumstanced, within the space of three months following St. Andrew's Day, the case of the individual so soliciting shall be stated by the President from the Chair at one of the ordinary Meetings of the Society, and the question of his re-admission decided by Ballot, according to the majority of votes, at the next Meeting of the Society."
PRESENTS

RECEIVED BY

THE ROYAL SOCIETY,

From 20th November 1828, to 18th June 1829;

WITH THE

NAMES OF THE DONORS.

PRESENTS.

AIRY (G. B.) Astronomical Observations made at the Observatory of Cambridge. By George Biddell Airy, Esq. M.A. Vol. I. For the year 1828. 4to. Camb. 1829.

ALDINI (J.) Habillement du Pompier, pour le préserver de l'Action de la Flamme. 4to. Milan.

ALMANAC. The Nautical Almanac and Astronomical Ephemeris for 1831. 8vo. Lond. 1828.

——— Supplement to The Nautical Almanac for 1829.

ALMANACK. The Celestial Atlas for 1829. 8vo.

——— The Englishman's Almanack, or Daily Calendar of general Information for the United Kingdom, for 1829. 8vo. Lond.

AMPE'RE (A.M.) Mémoire sur l'Action Mutuelle d'un Conducteur Voltaique et d'un Aimant. 4to. Paris.

ANNALEN DER K. K. STERNWARTE IN WIEN. Von J. J. Littrow und Meyer. Neunter Thiel. Fol. Wien 1829.

ANNALES DES SCIENCES D'OBSERVATION; comprenant l'Astronomie, la Physique, la Chimie, la Minéralogie, la Géologie, la Physiologie et l'Anatomie des deux Règnes, la Botanie, la Zoologie; les Théories Mathématiques, et les principales Applications de toutes ces Sciences à la Météorologie, à l'Agriculture, aux Arts, et à la Médecine. Par MM. Saigey et Raspail. Tome I. n. 1. Janvier 1829. 8vo. Paris.

ANNUAIRE. Pour l'An 1829. 12mo. Paris 1828.

ARCHÆOLOGIA; or, Miscellaneous Tracts relating to Antiquity. Published by the Society of Antiquaries of London. Vol. XXII. Part II. 4to. Lond. 1829.

ARNOTT (N.) Elements of Physics, or Natural Philosophy General and Medical, explained independently of Technical Mathematics, and containing New Disquisitions and Practical Suggestions. Third Edition. 8vo. Lond. 1828.

DONORS.

The University of Cambridge.

Le Chev. Aldini.

The Commissioners of the Admiralty.

The Company of Stationers.

M. Ampère, F.R.S.

H. M. the Emperor of Austria.

Messrs. Saigey and Raspail.

Le Bureau des Long, à Paris.

The Society of Antiquaries.

Dr. Neil Arnott.

MDCCCXXIX.
PRESENTS.

ARTS (SOCIETY OF). Transactions of the Society instituted at London for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce: with the Premiums offered in the year 1827-8. Vol. XLVI. 8vo. Lond. 1828.

ASIATIC SOCIETY (ROYAL). Transactions of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Vol. II. Part I. 4to. Lond. 1829.

ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY. Memoirs of the Astronomical Society of London. Vol. III. Part. II. 4to. Lond. 1829.

Monthly Notices of the Proceedings of the Astronomical Society. Nos. 14—17. 8vo.

ASTRONOMISCHE NACHRICHTEN. Nos. 138—143, and Nos. 145—156. 4to. Altona.

BAILY (F.) Appendix to Astronomical Tables and Formulae. 8vo. Lond. 1829.

Further Remarks on the Present Defective State of the Nautical Almanac, with an Account of the New Astronomical Ephemeris published at Berlin. 8vo. Lond. 1829.

BECHE (H. T. De la). A Tabular and Proportional View of the Superior, Supermedial, and Medial Rocks; (Tertiary and Secondary Rocks.) Chart. Second Edition, considerably enlarged, 1828.

BESSEL (W. F.) Untersuchungen über die Länge des Einfachen Secundenpendels. Mit zwei Kupfertafeln. 4to. Berlin 1826.

Astronomische Beobachtungen auf der Königlichen Universitäts-Sternwarte in Königsberg. 12 Abtheil. (vom 1 Januar bis 31 Dec. 1826.) Fol. Königsb. 1827.

BIJDRAGEN tot de Natuurkundige Wetenschappen, verzameld door H. C. Van Hall, W. Vrolik en G. J. Mulder. (1826, 4 Parts. 1827, 4 Parts. 1828, 2 Parts.) 8vo. Amsterdam 1828.

BLACKBURN (J.) Description of the Parabolic Sounding Board in Attercliffe Church. 8vo. Lond. 1829.

BLAND (Rev. Dr.) The Elements of Hydrostatics: with their Application to the Solution of Problems. (Second Edition.) 8vo. Cambr. 1827.

BOOTH (W. B.) Report on the Instruments employed in, and on the Plan of a Journal of Meteorological Observations kept in the Garden of the Horticultural Society at Chiswick. 4to. Lond. 1827.

Journal of Meteorological Observations made in the Garden of the Horticultural Society at Chiswick, during the Year 1826. 4to. Lond. 1827.

during the Year 1827. 4to. Lond. 1829.

BOSTOCK (J.) The First and Thirty-Third Books of Pliny's Natural History: a Specimen of a proposed Translation of the whole Work, with Notes, &c. 8vo. Lond. 1828.

DONORS.

The Society of Arts.

The Royal Asiatic Society.

The Astronomical Society of London.

Prof. Schumacher, F.R.S.

Francis Baily, Esq. F.R.S.

H. T. De la Beche, Esq. F.R.S.

Prof. Bessel, F.R.S.

The University of Heidelberg.

The Rev. John Blackburn.

Miles Bland, D.D. F.R.S.

Mr. W. B. Booth.

Dr. Bostock, F.R.S.
PRESENTS.

BOULOGNE. Procès-Verbal de la Séance Publique de la Société d'Agriculture, du Commerce et des Arts, de Boulogne-sur-Mer. Tenue le 27 Novembre 1826. 8vo. Boulogne 1827.

BOURDEAUX. Procès-Verbal de la Séance Publique de l'Académie Royale des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts, de Bourdeaux. 31 Mai 1827. et 5 Juin 1828. 8vo.

BOUVARD (A.) Extrait d'un Mémoire sur les Variations Diurnes du Baromètre. 8vo.

BRAHE (T.) Tychonis Brahe Astronomiae Instauratae Mechanica. Fol. Noribergæ. 1602.

BRANDE (W. T.) Tables in illustration of the Theory of Definite Proportional; showing the Prime Equivalent Numbers of the Elementary Substances, and the Volume and Weights in which they combine. 8vo. Lond. 1828.

Outlines of Geology. (new ed.) 8vo. Lond. 1829.

BRONGNIART (A.) Nouvelles Recherches sur le Pollen et les Granules Spermatiques des Végétaux. 8vo. Paris 1828.

Mémoire sur la Génération et le Développement de l'Embryon dans les Végétaux Phanérogames. 8vo. Paris 1827.

Atlas to the preceding work. 4to. Paris 1827.

Notice sur des Blocs de Roches des Terrains de Transport en Suède. 8vo. Paris 1828.

Prodrome d'une Histoire des Végétaux Fossiles. 8vo. Paris 1828.

Considérations Générales sur la Nature de la Végétation qui couvrait la Surface de la Terre aux diverses Périodes de la Formation de son Ecorce. 8vo. Paris 1828.

BROOKES (J.) An Address delivered at the Anniversary Meeting of the Zoological Club. 8vo. Lond. 1828.

BROWN (R.) Microscopical Observations on the Particles contained in the Pollen of Plants. 8vo. 1828.

CAEN. Précis des Travaux de la Société Royale d'Agriculture et de Commerce de Caen, depuis son rétablissement en 1801 jusqu'en 1810. 8vo. Caen 1827.

see LAIR.

CAILLE' (A.) Rapport de la Commission Spéciale chargée de rendre compte du Voyage de M. Auguste Caillé à Temboctou et dans l'Intérieur de l'Afrique. 8vo. Paris 1828.

CALENDARIUM Inquisitionum post Mortem. Vol. IV. Fol. Lond. 1829.

CANDOLLE (A. P. De) Mémoire sur la Famille des Melastomacées : avec dix Planches. 4to. Paris 1828.

Mémoire sur la Famille des Crassulacées. 4to. Paris 1828.

DONORS.

The Society of Agriculture at Boulogne.

The Royal Academy of Bourdeaux.

Professor Quetelet.

Professor Rigaud, F.R.S.

W. T. Brande, Esq. F.R.S.

M. Brongniart, F.R.S.

Josh. Brookes, Esq. F.R.S.

Robert Brown, Esq. F.R.S.

The Royal Society of Agriculture at Caen.

The Geographical Society of Paris.

The Commissioners of Public Records.

Prof. De Candolle, F.R.S.
CARLISLE (Sir A.) Alleged Discovery of the Use of the Spleen, and of the Thyroid Gland; being a Demonstration of the Connections and the Physical Effects produced by those Organs upon more important contiguous Parts, and now submitted as the Explanation of their respective Offices. 8vo. Lond. 1829.

CAUCHY (A.L.) Exercices de Mathématiques, No. 26—39. 4to. Paris.

— Leçons sur les Applications du Calcul Infinitésimal à la Géométrie. 4to.

CHATEAUNEUF (M. Ben. de). Recherches sur les Consommations, de tout Genre, de la Ville de Paris en 1817, comparées à ce qu'elles étaient en 1789. 4to. Paris 1820.

— Mémoire sur la Mortalité des Femmes de l'Age de Quarante à Cinquante Ans. 8vo. Paris 1822.

— Considérations sur les Enfans-trouvés dans les principaux Etats de l'Europe. 8vo. Paris 1824.

— Sur les Changemens qu'ont subis les Lois de la Mortalité en Europe, depuis un Demi-siècle (1775—1825). 8vo. Paris 1826.

— Notice sur l'Intensité de la Fécondité en Europe, au Commencement du Dix-neuvième Siècle. 8vo. Paris 1826.

— De la Colonisation des Condamnés, et de l'Avantage qu'il y aurait pour la France à adopter cette Mésure. 8vo. Paris 1827.

— Des Asiles nouvellement établis dans Paris pour les jeunes Enfans. 8vo. Paris 1829.

CLARK (Dr. J.) The Influence of Climate in the Prevention and Cure of Chronic Diseases, more particularly of the Chest and Digestive Organs: comprising an Account of the principal Places resorted to by Invalids in England and the South of Europe; a comparative Estimate of their respective Merits in particular Diseases; and general Directions for Invalids while travelling and residing abroad. With an Appendix, containing a Series of Tables on Climate. 8vo. Lond. 1829.

CLINTON (De WITT.) see HOSACK.

COLLEGE. The Sixth Annual Report of the Anglo-Chinese College; 1828. With an Appendix. 8vo. Malacca 1828.

CONNAISSANCE DES TEMS, ou des Mouvemens Célestes, à l'Usage des Astronomes et des Navigateurs. Pour les Années 1830 et 1831. 8vo. Paris 1827 & 1828.

COOPER (Sir A.) Illustrations of the Diseases of the Breast. 4to. Part. I. Lond. 1829.

CURTIS (J. H.) An Essay on the Deaf and Dumb; shewing the Necessity of Medical Treatment in early Infancy: with Observations on Congenital Deafness. 8vo. Lond. 1829.

DONORS.

Sir Anthony Carlisle, F.R.S.

Professor Cauchy.

M. Benoiston de Chateauneuf.

J. Clark, M.D.

J. F. Davis, Esq.

Le Bureau des Longitudes de France.

Sir A. P. Cooper, Bart. F.R.S.

J. H. Curtis, Esq.
PRESENTS.

CURTIS (J. H.) A Lecture on the Physiology and Zoology of the Ear, in Man and Animals. 4to. Lond. 1828.

DALTON (J.) New System of Chemical Philosophy. Vol. II. Part I. 8vo. Lond. 1827.

DAMOISEAU (Le Baron de). Tables de la Lune, formées par la seule Théorie de l'Attraction, et suivant la Division de la Circonférence en 360 Degrés. Par M. le Baron de Damoiseau, Lieut.-Col. d'Artillerie. Fol. Paris 1828.

DELAMBRE (M.) Histoire de l'Astronomie au Dix-huitième Siècle. Par M. Delambre. 4to. Paris 1827.

DIJON. Académie des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres, de Dijon: Séance publique du 17 Décembre 1827. 8vo. Dijon 1827.

DUNCAN (A.) Supplement to the Edinburgh New Dispensatory. 8vo. Edinb. 1829.

DUPERREY (L. I.) Mémoire sur les Opérations Géographiques faites dans la Campagne de la Corvette de S. M. La Coquille, pendant les années 1822, 1823, 1824, et 1825. Par L. I. Duperrey, Capt. de Frég. Comm. l'Expedition. 8vo. Paris.

EDINBURGH (ROYAL SOCIETY OF). Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Vol. XI. Part I. 4to. Edinb.

EDWARDS (W. F.) Des Caractères Physiologiques des Races Humaines considérés dans leurs Rapports avec l'Histoire. 8vo. Paris 1829.

ENCKE (J. F.) Berliner Astronomisches Jahrbuch für 1830, Herausgegeben von J. F. Encke. Königr. Astron. Berlin. 8vo. Berlin 1828.

ERIOMETER, see SKIADAN.

EULER (L.) The Cast of a Medallion of the Head of Leonard Euler; executed by Rachette at St. Petersburgh in 1783.

FLORA BATAVA, ou Figures et Descriptions de Plantes Belgiques, Nos. 79 & 80. 4to. Amst.

FRANCE (INSTITUT DE). Mémoires de l'Académie Royale des Sciences de l'Institut de France. Tome VII. 4to. Paris 1827.

FRANCHINI (P.) La Scienza del Calcolo Sublime: Opera del Prof. Pietro Franchini. 8vo. Lucca 1826.

FRANKLIN (J.) Narrative of a Second Expedition to the Shores of the Polar Sea, in the Years 1825, 1826, and 1827, by John Franklin, Capt. R. N. F.R.S. and Commander of the Expedition. Including an Account of the Progress of a Detachment to the Eastward, by John Richardson, M.D. F.R.S., Surgeon and Naturalist to the Expedition. Illustrated by numerous Plates and Maps. 4to. Lond. 1828.

FROST (J.) An Oration delivered before the Medico-Botanical Society. October 1828. 4to. Lond.

DONORS.

J. H. Curtis, Esq.

John Dalton, Esq. F.R.S.

Le Bureau des Longitudes à Paris.

M. Mathieu.

The Academy of Sciences at Dijon.

Andrew Duncan, M.D.

Captain Duperrey.

The Royal Society of Edinburgh.

W. F. Edwards, M.D. F.R.S.

Professor Encke, F.R.S.

The Rev. John Hewlett.

H. M. The King of the Netherlands.

The Royal Academy of Sciences of Paris.

Professor Franchini.

Sir John Franklin, F.R.S.

John Frost, Esq.
PRESENTS.

GARNIER (M. F.) Mémoire sur les Recherches entreprises à différentes Époques, dans le Département du Pays-de-Calais, pour y découvrir de nouvelles Mines de Houille, et les dépenses qu’exigeaient, pour être continuées, celles qui présenteraient quelques chances de succès. 4to. Paris 1828.

An Account of the Country of the Lower Boulonnois. 8vo.

GAZETTE. The London Literary Gazette, and Journal of Belles-Lettres, Arts, Sciences, &c. Nos. 624—647. 4to. Lond.

GENTLE SPONGE: being a safe, easy, certain, and just Mode of reducing, to any desirable Extent, the National Debt of England. In a Letter to His Grace the Duke of Wellington, (with Notes). By an Old Soldier. 8vo. Lond. 1829.

GEOGRAPHY. Programme des Prix. 1829. 8e Année. 8vo. Paris 1829.

Extrait des Règlemens et Circulaires de la Société de Géographie. 8vo.

see CAILLE'.

GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY. Proceedings of the Geological Society of London. No. 9. 8vo.

GIRARD (P. de) An Account of the Equations' Machine invented by Ph. de Girard. 4to. Lond.

GOETTINGEN. Commentationes Societatis Regiae Scientiarum Gottingensis, ad A. 1804—8. Vol. XVI. 4to. Gottingæ 1808.

Recentiores. Vol. VI. ad A. 1823—27. 4to. Gottingæ 1828.

GOULD (C.) The Companion to the Microscope, with full Directions for Preparing the Vegetable Infusions to produce Animalculæ; with a Catalogue of all the principal Objects and the best Method of procuring them. With Plates. 18mo. Lond. 1828.

GRAY (J. E.) Spicilegia Zoologica. Part. I. 4to. Lond. 1828.

GREEN (B. R.) Numismatic Atlas of Grecian History, comprised in a Series of Twenty-one Plates, with descriptive Letter-press. Fol. Lond. 1829.

GRETSCH (N.) Grammaire Raisonnée de la Langue Russe, précédée d'une Introduction sur l'Histoire de cet Idiome, de son Alphabet, et de sa Grammaire, par Nic. Gretsch. Ouvrage traduit du Russe, et arrangé pour la Langue Française, avec l'Accent Tonique sur tous les Mots cités, par Ch. Ph. Reiff. Tome premier. 8vo. St. Pétersb. 1828.

HAMILTON (W. R.) An Essay on the Theory of Systems of Rays. First Part. 4to. Dublin.

HOME (Sir E.) Supplement to Lectures on Comparative Anatomy. Illustrated by Engravings. Vols. V. and VI. 4to. Lond. 1828.

HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY. Transactions of the Horticultural Society of London. Vol. VII. Part III. 8vo. Lond.

DONORS.

M. Garnier.

The Proprietors.

The Author.

Geograph. Soc. of Paris.

The Geological Society of London.

M. de Girard.

The Royal Society of Sciences at Göttingen.

Mr. Charles Gould.

J. E. Gray, Esq.

B. R. Green, Esq.

M. Gretsch.

W. R. Hamilton, Esq. A.R. of Ireland.

Sir Everard Home, Bart.

V.P.R.S.

The Horticultural Society of London.
PRESENTS.

HOSACK (D.) Memoir of De Witt Clinton: with an Appendix, containing numerous Documents illustrative of the principal Events of his Life. By David Hosack, M.D. F.R.S. 4to. New York 1829.

HULLMANDEL (C.) Eight Plates; being Specimens of some further Improvements in Lithographic Printing. 8vo. Lond. 1829.

HUMANE SOCIETY (ROYAL). The Fifty-Fifth Annual Report of the Royal Humane Society. 8vo. Lond. 1829.

INDIA, see MAP.

IRELAND. The Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy. Vol. XV. 4to. Dublin.

ITALIAN SOCIETY. Memorie di Matematica e di Fisica della Società Italiana delle Scienze, residente in Modena. Tomo XX. Parte contenente le Memorie di Matematica. 4to. Modena 1828.

JACOBSON (Dr.) Contributions to the Anatomy and Physiology of Mollusca. 8vo.

JOHNSON (Lieut.) Tables showing the Times of High and Low Water, the Rise and Fall of Tides, &c. as observed in James's Bay, St. Helena, from November 1826 to May 1827. By Lieut. Johnson, R.N. (M.S.)

JOHNSTONE (J.) Medical Essays: 1. On Mineral Poisons. 2. On Madness. 3. Discovery of the Power of Mineral Acids in the state of Gas, to destroy Contagion. 4. Defence of the same. 8vo. Lond. 1795–1805.

JOMARD (M.) Mémoire sur la Population Comparée de l'Egypte Ancienne et Moderne. Folio. Paris 1828.

——— Description de la Ville et des Environs du Kaire, accompagnée de l'Explication des Plans de cette Ville, avec les Noms des Lieux en Arabe et en Français, et renfermant des Notions sur sa Distribution, ses Monumens, sa Population, son Commerce et son Industrie. Folio. Paris 1829.

——— An Account of the "Ecole Egyptienne de Paris." 8vo. Paris 1828.

——— Réflexions sur l'Etat des Connaissances relatives au Cours du Dhioliba, vulgairement appelé Niger; suivies d'un Extrait du Second Voyage de Clapperton en Afrique, avec des Remarques sur ce Voyage, ainsi que sur la Mort du Major Laing. 8vo. Paris 1829.

JOURNAL. The Quarterly Journal of Science, Literature, and the Arts. New Series. No. 7—9. 8vo. Lond. 1828—9.

——— The Zoological Journal. No. 13—15. 8vo. Lond.

LAGERHJELM (P.) Förök att Bestämma Valsadt och Smidt Stängjerns tåthet, jemnhet och Styrka. Första Delen. 8vo. Stockholm 1827.

——— Plates illustrative of the preceding Work. Obl. Folio.

Donors.

Dr. Hosack, F.R.S.

Mr. C. Hullmandel.

The Royal Humane Society.

The Royal Irish Academy.

La Società Italiana.

Dr. Jacobson.

The Rev. Fearon Fallows, F.R.S.

John Johnstone, M.D. F.R.S.

M. Jomard.

The Managers of the Royal Institution.

The Editor.

M. Lagerhjelm.
PRESENTS.

LAGRANGE. A Lithographic Print of Joseph Louis Lagrange.

LAIR (P. A.) Exposé Historique des Travaux de la Société Royale d'Agriculture et de Commerce de Caen, depuis son Rétablissement en 1801 jusqu'en 1826.

De la Pêche, du Parcage et du Commerce des Huitres en France. 8vo. Caen 1826.

Discourse on the Second Exhibition of Products of the Arts in the Department of Calvados. 8vo.

LEE (S.) Dr. Samuel Lee's Translation from the Arabic of Ibn Battuta's Travels. 4to. Lond. 1829.

LEGENDRE (A. M.) Traité des Functions Elliptiques et des Intégrales Euéliennes, avec des Tables pour en faciliter le Calcul Numérique. Tome Troisième : contenant divers Suppléments à la Théorie des Fonctions Elliptiques. 8vo. Paris 1828.

L'HUILIER (S.) Annonce de quelques Propriétés de la Circonférence du Cercle relatives aux Polygones Réguliers. 8vo. Novembre 1827.

Annonce d'une Propriété de la Surface Sphérique relativement aux Polyhèdres Réguliers. 8vo. Decembre 1827.

Expressions diverses de la Capacité d'un Polyèdre dans quelques-uns de ses Éléments Extérieurs. 8vo.

LINNEAN SOCIETY. Transactions of the Linnean Society of London. Vol. XVI. Part I.

LITERATURE (ROYAL SOCIETY OF) Transactions of the Royal Society of Literature of the United Kingdom. Vol. I. Part II. 4to. London 1829.

LOUDON (J. C.) The Magazine of Natural History, and Journal of Zoology, Botany, Mineralogy, Geology and Meteorology. Nos. 6 and 7. 8vo. Lond.

LYON (G. F.) Journal of a Residence and Tour in the Republic of Mexico. 8vo. Lond. 1828.

MACDONALD (J.) A Review, and Notices, on the Subject of Terrestrial Magnetism and the Local Attraction of the Needle. (M.S.)

MAGAZINE. The Philosophical Magazine and Annals of Philosophy. No. 19—30. 8vo. Lond. 1828—9.

MAJENDIE (M.) Mémoire Physiologique sur le Cerveau. 4to. Paris.

MAP. Eighteen Maps,—in continuation of the Atlas of India directed to be made by Order of the East India Company.

The Ordnance Maps of Cheltenham and its Vicinity, and of Cirencester and its Vicinity, forming part of the Trigonometrical Survey of Great Britain.

MARCOZ (J. B. P.) Astronomie Solaire d'Hipparque, soumise à une Critique rigoureuse, et ensuite rendue à sa vérité primordiale. 8vo. Paris 1828.

DONORS.

The Baron de Prony, F.R.S.

M. Lair.

The Oriental Translation Committee.

M. LeGendre, F.R.S.

Professor L'Huillier, F.R.S.

The Linnean Society of London.

Royal Society of Literature.

J. C. Loudon, Esq.

Capt. Lyon, R.N. F.R.S.

Lieut. Col. J. Macdonald, F.R.S.

Richard Taylor, Esq.

M. Majendie.

The East India Company.

The Board of Ordnance.

M. Marcoz.
PRESENTS.

MARESCA (Prof.) On the Analytical Method of the Ancients. 8vo. Paris.

MATHIAS (T. J.) Per la Morte dell’ Onorevolissimo Cavaliero Guglielmo Drummond, morto in Roma ai 29 di Marzo 1828, Canzone di Tommaso Jacopo Mathias (Inglese.) 8vo. Lond. 1828.

La Mutabilità. Poema, in due Canti, dall’ Inglese di Edmundo Spenser, recato in Verso Italiano detto Ottava Rima, da Tommaso Jacopo Mathias (Inglese.) 8vo. Napoli 1827.

MEDICO-CHIRURGICAL TRANSACTIONS. Vol. XIV. 8vo. Lond. 1828.

MENAI BRIDGE, see PROVIS.

MONTLIVAUT (M. de). Essai de Cosmologie, ou Mémoire sur la Cause et la Nature des Mouvemens Célestes;—sur la Cause et la Nature de la Lumière. 4to. Paris 1826.

Lettres Cosmologiques addressées à M. le Baron Fourier. 4to. Paris 1828.

MUMMY. An Account of an Egyptian Mummy presented to the Museum of the Leeds Philosophical and Literary Society by the late John Blayds, Esq.: drawn up by William Osburn, Jun. With an Appendix, containing the Chemical and Anatomical Details of the Examination of the Body, by Messrs. George, Teale, and Hey. 8vo. Leeds 1828.

NEWTON (Sir I.) An Autograph of Sir Isaac Newton, being an Order for the Purchase in his name of South Sea Stock.

NOBILI (Sign.) Echantillon de Metallo-chromie.

PARROT (M.) Memoir on the Fixed Points of the Thermometer. 4to.

PATTU (M.) Rapport sur les Plaques de Porcelaine. Par M. Pattu. 8vo. Caen 1823.

PEARSON (W.) An Introduction to Practical Astronomy: containing Descriptions of the various Instruments that have been employed in determining the Places of the Heavenly Bodies, with an Account of the Methods of adjusting and using them. Vol. II. 4to. Lond. 1829.

Plates to the preceding Work. 4to.

PETERSBURGH. Recueil des Actes de la Séance Solennelle de l’Académie Impériale de Sciences de St. Pétersbourg, tenue à l’occasion de sa Fête Seculaire le 29 Dec. 1827. 4to. St. Pétersbourg.

PHILADELPHIA. Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, held at Philadelphia, for promoting Useful Knowledge. Vol. III. Part. II. N. S. 4to. Philadelphia.

PLANA (J.) Opérations Géodésiques et Astronomiques pour la Mesure d’un Arc du Parallèle Moyen exécutées en Piémont et en Savoie par une Commission composée d’Officiers de l’Etat Major Général et d’Astronomes Piémontais et Autrichiens en 1821, 1822, 1823. 4to. Milan 1825-7.

DONORS.

Professor Maresca.

Thos. James Mathias, Esq.

The Medical and Chirurgical Society.

The Count de Montlivault.

The Leeds Philosophical and Literary Society.

Dr. Wollaston, V.P.R.S.

Signor Nobili.

M. Parrot.

M. Pattu.

The Rev. William Pearson, LL.D. F.R.S.

The Imperial Academy of Sciences at St. Petersburg.

The Philosophical Society at Philadelphia.

Professor Plana, F.R.S.
PLANA (J.) Méthode Élémentaire pour découvrir et démontrer la Possibilité des Nouveaux Théorèmes sur la Théorie des Transcendantes Elliptiques. 8vo.

Observations Astronomiques faites en 1822, 1823, 1824, 1825, en l'Observatoire Royal, de Turin précédées d'un Memoire sur les Réfractions Astronomiques. 4to. Turin 1828. (Juin.)

Mémoire sur la Partie de Coefficient de la grande Inégalité de Jupiter et Saturne qui dépend du carré de la Force Perturbatrice. 8vo.

POISSON (Le Baron). Mémoire sur l'Equilibre des Fluides. 4to.

POMMIER. Sur le Pommier : et sur une nouvelle Variété de Pomme découverte en 1826 dans le Departement du Calvados. (Anonymous.) 8vo. Caen 1827.

POWELL (B.) The Elements of Curves: comprising, 1. The Geometrical Principles of the Conic Sections; 2. An Introduction to the Algebraic Theory of Curves. 8vo. Oxford 1828.

PRONY (Le Bar.) Notice Historique sur Jean-Rodolphe Perronet, Membre de l'Académie Royale des Sciences de Paris, &c. 8vo. Paris 1829.

PROVIS (W. A.) An Historical and Descriptive Account of the Suspension Bridge constructed over the Menai Strait in North Wales; with a brief Notice of Conway Bridge. From designs by, and under the direction of, Thomas Telford, F.R.S. By William Alex. Provis, the Resident Engineer. Imp. Folio. Ind. Paper. Lond. 1828.

QUETELET (A.) Description de plusieurs Observatoires d'Angleterre. 8vo.

RASPAIL (M.) Histoire Naturelle de l'Alcyonelle Fluviatile (Alcyonella Stagnorum, Lamk.) et de tous les Genres Voisins, considérés soit sous le rapport de leur Organisation et de leur Identité Spécifique, soit sur le rapport physiologique de leurs Tentacules avec les Branchies des Mollusques, et des Animalcules ou Infusoires ou Spermatiques. 4to. Paris 1827.

Observations et Expériences propres à démontrer que les Granules qui sortent dans l'Explosion du Grain de Pollen, bien loin d'être les Analogues des Animalcules Spermatiques, comme Gleichen l'avait pensé le premier, ne sont pas même des Corps Organisés. 4to. Paris 1827.

Expériences de Chimie Microscopique, ayant pour but démontrer l'Analogie qui existe entre la Disposition qu'affecte la Silice dans les Spongilles et dans certaines Eponges, et celle qu'affecte l'Oxalate de Chaux dans les Végétaux; accompagnées de l'Anatomie Microscopique des Spongilles. 4to. Paris 1827.

Sur les Cristaux Calcaires. 4to, Paris.

see ANNALES.
PRESENTS.

REVIEW. The London Weekly Review. A Journal of Literature and the Fine Arts. Nos. 84—95. 4to. Lond.

RICHARDSON (Dr. J.) Fauna Boreali-Americana, or the Zoology of the Northern Parts of British America. By John Richardson, M.D. F.R.S., assisted by W. Swainson, Esq. and the Rev. William Kirby, M.A. Part I. containing the Quadrupeds. 4to. Lond. 1829.

——— see FRANKLIN.

RIGAUD (S. P.) Astronomical Observations made at the Radcliffe Observatory, Oxford, from May 1, 1828, to May 1, 1829. By, and under the direction of, Stephen Peter Rigaud, Esq. F.R.S. (M.S.) Fol.

ROBINSON (P. F.) The New Vitruvius Britannicus. Part I. containing the Antiquities of Woburn Abbey. Imp. Fol. Lond. 1829.

ROGER (M.) Recherches Philosophiques sur la Langue Ouolofe, suivies d'un Vocabulaire abrégé Français-ouolof. 8vo. Paris 1829.

ROGET (P. M.) Description of the New Sliding Rule of Involution, invented by Dr. Roget, with Instructions for using it. 8vo. Lond. 1828.

ROSS (Capt. John). Treatise on Navigation by Steam, comprising a History of the Steam Engine, and an Essay towards a System of the Naval Tactics peculiar to Steam Navigation, as applicable both to Commerce and Maritime Warfare; including a Comparison of its Advantages as related to other Systems in the Circumstances of Speed, Safety, and Economy, but more particularly in that of the National Defence. Illustrated with Plates and Engravings, 4to. London 1828.

SANTOS. Nova Theoria do Universo. Fundada nas notaveis Diferenças de Densidades, e Naturezas Constituintes dos Corpos Celestes; donde resulta a fluctuação dos Satellites, e a anti gravitação do Sol, consideradas como Leis Universaes; e se excluem as atracções, as forças de projecção, velocidades iniciaes, vacuos, &c. Para servir de Introduçao a outras Obras Astronomicas, Geologicas, Physicas, e de Historia Natural. 8vo. Rio de Janeiro 1827.

SERULLAS (M.) Sur un Nouveau Composé de Brome et de Carbone, et sur les Iodures de Carbone. 8vo. Paris.

——— Sur les Bromures d'Arsenic et de Bismuth, et sur le Bromure d'Antimoine. 8vo. Paris 1827.

——— De l'Action de l'Acide Sulfurique sur l'Alcool, et des Produits qui en resultant. 8vo. Paris 1828.

SEYFFARTH (G.) Brevis Defensio Hieroglyphices inventæ à F. A. G. Spohn et G. Seyffarth. Scripsit G. Seyffarth. 4to. Lipsiae 1827.

——— Remarks upon an Egyptian History, in Egyptian characters, in the Royal Museum at Turin, with reference to an Article in the Edinburgh Review. By Dr. G. Seyffarth, Prof. Univ. Leipzig. 8vo. Lond. 1828.

DONORS.

The Proprietors.

John Richardson, M.D. F.R.S.

Professor Rigaud, F.R.S.

P. F. Robinson, Esq.

The Baron Roger.

Dr. Roget, Sec. R.S.

Captain John Ross, R.N.

Señor José Victorino dos Santos e Sousa.

M. Serullas.

Dr. Seyffarth.
PRESENTS.

SKIADAN (M.) Description d'un Eriomètre, ou Instrument pour mesurer la Finesse de la Laine, de l'Invention de M. Skiadan; publiée par M. le Doct. Hamel. 8vo. Moscow 1828.

SOANE (J.) Designs for completing some of the Public Buildings at Westminster, and for correcting Defects in others. By J. Soane, Architect. Fol. London 1829.

SOEMMERRING, see THILO.

SOUTH (J.) Reply to a Letter in the Morning Chronicle relative to the Interest which the British Government evinces in the promotion of Astronomical Science. 8vo. Lond. 1829.

——— Return to an Order of the House of Commons for Memorials or Reports presented to the Government since Jan. 1828, on the Nautical Almanac and Board of Longitude; and for a Return of the Expenses of the late Board of Longitude.

——— Refutation of the numerous Mis-statements and Fallacies contained in a Paper presented to the Admiralty. 8vo. Lond. 1829.

STANHOPE (Earl.) An Address delivered at the Anniversary Meeting of the Medico-Botanical Society. 8vo. Lond. 1829.

SWAINSON (W.) Zoological Illustrations. The Drawings and Descriptions by William Swainson, Esq. F.R.S. No. 1 of Second Series. 8vo. Lond. 1829.

TAYLOR (John.) Records of Mining. Part I. John Taylor, F.R.S. 4to. Lond. 1829.

THILO (L.) De Tabulis Iconographicis, quibus Maculae Solis, mensibus Anni 1826 sex posterioribus, et Anni 1827 sex prioribus, à Viro illustrissimo S. Th. à Soemmerring observatæ, adumbrantur. Dissertatio Ludovici Thilo, Phil. Doct. 4to. Francof. ad Mæn. 1828.

THURY (M. de.) Programme d'un Concours pour le Percement de Puits Forés suivant la Méthode Artésienne. 8vo. Paris 1828.

TIARKS (J. L.) Report on Astronomical Observations for ascertaining the most North-western Point of the Lake of the Woods. 8vo. New York 1827.

VETUSTA MONUMENTA. Vol. V. Plates LI.—LX.

WATKINS (F.) A Popular Sketch of Electro-Magnetism, or Elector-Dynamics. 8vo. Lond. 1828.

WOODLEY (W.) The Universe as it is. With Engravings designed by W. Woodley. 8vo. Lond. 1829.

YARRELL (W.) Papers on the White Bait and Shad, on the Tapir of America, and on the Anatomy of the Corvorant. 8vo. Lond. 1828.

YORKSHIRE PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY. The Annual Report of the Yorkshire Philosophical Society for 1828. 8vo.

DONORS.

Dr. Hamel.

John Soane, Esq. F.R.S.

James South, Esq. F.R.S.

The Earl Stanhope, F.R.S.

William Swainson, Esq. F.R.S.

John Taylor, Esq. F.R.S.

Dr. Soemmerring, F.R.S.

The Viscount de Thury.

Dr. Tiarks, F.R.S.

The Society of Antiquaries.

Mr. F. Watkins.

William Woodley, Esq.

William Yarrell, Esq.

The Society.
PHILOSOPHICAL
TRANSACTIONS
OF THE
ROYAL SOCIETY
OF
LONDON.

FOR THE YEAR MDCCCXXIX.

PART III.

CONTAINING

ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS
MADE AT THE OBSERVATORY AT PARAMATTA;

BY CHARLES RUMKER, Esq.

Printed at the Expense of His Majesty's Colonial Department.

LONDON:

PRINTED BY RICHARD TAYLOR, RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.

MDCCCXXIX.
THE principal instruments in the Observatory at Paramatta are,

A $5\frac{1}{2}$-feet transit by Troughton.

A 2-feet mural circle by the same.

A 16-inch repeating circle by Reichenbach.

A $3\frac{1}{2}$-feet telescope with equatorial motion and wire micrometer by Banks.

Two instruments for observing the variation and dip of the magnetic needle.

The observations made with these instruments were planned with particular respect to the place of the Observatory, and confined to what could be done in the southern hemisphere alone.

The first are magnetic observations. After these follows the geographical position of the Observatory. Observations of latitude in the southern hemisphere could best prove whether the difference usually found between the results derived from stars north of the zenith and those derived from stars south of the zenith, arise from local causes or from imperfections of the instruments. In the reductions of these observations, I have partly made use of the formula given by Bohnenberger in his "Geographische Ortsbestimmung," § 153.

The repeating circle has been in constant use for twenty years, and the nonius of the smaller circle could not be made to close sufficiently to the greater circle. I ascribe it to this cause that the latitudes deduced from some of the observations made with this instrument deviate rather from the truth, the greater part of them having moreover been made without an assistant. The observations made alternately direct and by reflection show on the other hand great consistency; and as the results of these agree with the mean of the observations made with the former instrument on northern and southern stars, there is no doubt of this being the true latitude.

I might have rejected those observations with the repeating circle that de-
viated much from the mean; but I was of opinion that the true latitude was not the sole object of importance, but that it was also desirable to investigate the errors arising from flexibility, or causes not sufficiently known, to which repeating instruments are subject in the southern hemisphere in comparison with those that have been observed in the northern, which could only be effected by a thorough detail of the observations. The longitude of Paramatta is sufficiently known for geographical purposes; and having always objects of more immediate importance in hand, I was unwilling to devote much time to occultations of fixed stars, there being but little chance of corresponding ones being made in other places. But the occultations of the principal stars and planets have been attended to, as well as eclipses and observations of moon-culminating stars.

I have next introduced the solstices observed with the repeating and mural circles at Paramatta. The vicinity of the sun to the zenith at the southern solstice rendered the usual methods of reduction insufficient, and a more correct one became necessary, which has already been partly published in the Memoirs of the Astronomical Society. In the observations of the solstices, I had it also in view to ascertain whether the latitude derived from observations with the repeating circle with the known obliquity from the northern and southern solstice, would exhibit similar anomalies to those observed in Europe. The latitude of Paramatta by the northern solstice is about $4''$ less than what the southern gives, and the mean obliquity of the ecliptic as ascertained there by the repeating circle is $1''.7$ less than that found by the mural circle, which latter corresponds as nearly as possible with the solar tables.

The use of observations of the inferior conjunction of Venus and the opposition of Mars in that part of the world, as well as the culminations of the moon for determining their respective parallaxes, is obvious.

Observations in the southern hemisphere of those errant bodies that cross our system in all directions from the arctic to the antarctic pole, are during this latter part of their orbit the more interesting, as they complete the series of observations made of them by European astronomers, to whom they are then invisible, or whose notice they may have entirely escaped. It was therefore south of the equator that I chiefly searched for comets. Much time was thus unsuccessfully spent, which I hope will not be perceived in the regular
observations with the transit and mural circle. The observations of the comet of 1825 have already appeared in the Memoirs of the Astronomical Society, where its positions are given according to La Caille's places of the compared stars. In the present work I have reduced them afresh by means of the places of these stars determined from my own observations, being desirous of giving here a complete view of the principal observations made at Paramatta.

The determination of the right ascensions of some of the principal stars of the southern hemisphere by equal as well as by absolute altitudes, has been the most laborious part of my observations. I have omitted the particulars, which would have filled pages void of interest to those who are in possession of more perfect transit instruments, or have the means at hand of correcting their defects. I am, however, not without hopes that the few right ascensions given by me, and which are independent of one another, are free from those small constant errors that cannot easily be discovered in transit instruments.

Next follow the south polar distances of the circumpolar stars deduced from their upper and lower culminations. Of these I have given the original observations, in order to enable others to recompute them, to which they are in my opinion well entitled by their importance. The south polar distance of η Argus, β Crucis, and α Eridani, would probably be more correctly deduced from their upper culminations only, with the polar point derived from the other stars, whilst their lower culminations may serve to establish the law of refraction in the southern hemisphere. It would seem that the effects of the temperature and density of the atmosphere upon the refraction exceed the tabular corrections, which may be owing to a greater elasticity of the air in this warm climate. The conclusion makes a catalogue of the south polar distances of these stars with their constants of aberration and nutation.

A future volume will contain a catalogue of the stars of the southern hemisphere, deduced from the observations with the transit and mural circle.
CONTENTS.

Magnetic Observations ........................................... page 1
Latitude of the Observatory ...................................... 2
Lunar Observations. Eclipses of Jupiter's Satellites. Occultations of fixed Stars .................................................. 17
Solar Eclipses .......................................................... 18
Transit of Mercury over the Sun's Disk ......................... 20
Lunar Eclipses .......................................................... 22
Moon-culminating Stars ............................................. 23
Longitude of the Observatory ....................................... 26
Right Ascensions of the Moon .................................... 28
Geographical Position of Port Jackson ......................... 29
Solar Observations .................................................... 31
Solstices observed with the Repeating Circle ................. 37
Solstices observed with the Mural Circle ..................... 41
Inferior Conjunction of Venus ................................... 46
Opposition of Mars ................................................... 50
South Polar Distances of the Moon .............................. 52
Comets ........................................................................ 54
Determination of the Right Ascensions of some of the principal Stars of the Southern Hemisphere by a method independent of the Transit .................................................. 69
South Polar Distances of some of the principal Stars of the Southern Hemisphere, determined by superior and inferior Culminations .................................................. 81
Catalogue of the South Polar Distances of the preceding Stars, with their Constants of Aberration and Nutation .................................................. 150
Length of the Pendulum at Paramatta ......................... 151
Additions and Corrections .......................................... 151