# Back Matter

**Author(s):** Anonymous  
**Year:** 1816  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London  
**Volume:** 106  
**Pages:** 15 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-107540  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/107540>  

---

PRESENTS

RECEIVED BY THE

ROYAL SOCIETY,

From November 1815 to July 1816.

WITH THE

NAMES OF THE DONORS.

1815.

PRESENTS.

Nov. 9. The Acts of the Parliaments of Scotland, Vol. II. and III. 1814. fol.
Registrum magni Sigilli Regum Scotorum in Archivis publicis asservatum, 1814. fol.
Reports of the Commissioners appointed by his Majesty to execute the Measures recommended in an Address of the House of Commons respecting the public Records of Ireland, 1815. fol.
A Description of the Collection of Ancient Marbles in the British Museum, Part. II. London, 1815. 4°
A Philosophical and Mathematical Dictionary, by Charles Hutton, LL. D. &c. London, 1815. 2 vols. 4°
An Essay on Dew and several Appearances connected with it, by William Charles Wells, M.D. F.R.S.; Second Edition. London, 1815. 8°
Episodes from the Shah Nameh or Annals of the Persian Kings, by Ferdosee, translated into English verse, by Stephen Weston, B.D. F.R.S. London, 1815. 8°
Memoirs of the Life of the Rev. Richard Price, D.D. F.R.S. by William Morgan, F.R.S. Lond. 1815. 8°
A Philosophical Treatise on the hereditary Peculiarities of the Human Race, Second Edition, with an Appendix, by Joseph Adams, M.D. London, 1815. 8°

DONORS.

The Commissioners of Public Records.
The Trustees of the British Museum.
Dr. Hutton.
Dr. William Charles Wells.
Rev. Stephen Weston.
William Morgan, Esq.
Dr. Joseph Adams.

MDCCCXVI.
PRESENTS.

Pharmacopoeia Collegii Regalis Medicorum Londinensis 1809, edit. alt. London, 1815. 8°

Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, Vol. VII. Part 2. 4°

Report on the pestilential Disorder of Andalusia, by Sir James Fellowes, M.D. London, 1815. 8°

A Collection of Treatises on the Effects of Solar Lunar influence in Fevers, with an improved Method of curing them. Third Edition. Cupar 1815, 8vo. by Francis Balfour, M.D.

The Zoological Miscellany, No. 18—22.

The Monthly Review from June to October, and Appendix to Vol. LXXVII.

The European Magazine from June to October.

Annals of Philosophy. No. 31—35.

The Philosophical Magazine from June to October.

16. Système universel ou de l'Univers et de ses Phénomènes considérés comme les Effets d'une Cause unique, par M. Thilorier, 4 vol. Paris, 1815. 8°

Archæologia, or Miscellaneous Tracts relating to Antiquity, published by the Society of Antiquaries of London, Vol. XVIII. Part 1. London, 1815. 4°

The American Medical and Philosophical Register, or Annals of Medicine, Natural History, Agriculture, and the Arts, by David Hosack, M.D. and John W. Francis, M.D. 4 vols. New York, 1814. 8°

Journal des Mines. No. 217—218.

Mémoire sur le Cactus Opuntia. Paris, 1813. 8°

Coup d’Œil historique, agricole botanique, et pittoresque sur le Monte Circello. Paris, 1814. 8°

Mémoire sur la Culture des Dahlies et sur leurs Usages comme Ornement des jardins et comme Plantes économiques. Paris, 1812. 8°

Description de la Lembertine, Machine à pétrir le Pain, suivie de quelques Observations sur les Levains. Paris, 1813. 8°

Lettre sur l’Exécution juridique de deux Taureaux. Paris, 1812. 8°

Eloge historique de Ch. Sig. Sonnini de Manoncourt. Paris, 1812. 8°

Kongl Vetenskaps Academiens Handlingar för År 1814. Stockholm, 1814. 8°

Recherches sur l’Acide prussique, par M. Gay Lussac, Paris, 1815. 8°

DONORS.

The Royal College of Physicians.

The Royal Society of Edinburgh.

Sir James Fellowes.

Dr. Francis Balfour.

Dr. W. Elford Leach.

Mr. Griffiths.

The Editor.

Dr. Thomas Thomson.

Mr. Alexander Tilloch.

M. Thilorier.

The Society of Antiquaries.

Dr. David Hosack.

Conseil des Mines de France.

M. Arsenne Thiebaut Berneaud.

The Royal Academy of Sciences at Stockholm.

M. Gay Lussac.
Nov. 23. A General Dispensatory, or Arrangement of the Pharmacopoeias of London, Edinburgh, and Dublin, by S. Rootsey, F. L. S. Bristol, 1815.

Dec. 7. Annals of Philosophy, No. 36.
Philosophical Magazine for November.
Monthly Review for November.
European Magazine for November.
The Zoological Miscellany, No. 23.
An Account of two successful Operations for restoring a lost Nose, by J. C. Carpue. London, 1815.

Mémoire et Observations concernant les bons Effets du Cautère actuel appliquée sur la Tête par Louis Valentin, à Nancy, 1815.
Mémoire sur les Fluxions de Poitrine, par Louis Valentin, à Nancy, 1815.

21. Développements de Géométrie, avec des Applications à la Stabilité de Vaisseaux aux Deblais et Remblais au Défilement à l'Optique, &c. par Ch. Dupin. Paris, 1813.

Tableau de l'Architecture navale militaire aux dix-huitième et dix-neuvième Siècles, Analyse de la première Partie par Ch. Dupin. Paris, 4°

Du Rétablissement de l'Académie de Marine, par Ch. Dupin. Paris, 1815.

Tablas mineralógicas dispuestas segun los Descubrimientos mas recientes, e illustradas con Notas por D. L. G. Karsten, traducida al Castellano para el Uso del Real Seminario de Mineria, por D. Andres Manuel del Rio, impressas en Mexico, 1804.

A Treatise on consumptive Diseases, by Thomas Young, M.D. F.R. and L.S. London, 1815.

1816.

Jan. 11. Connaissance des Tems pour l'An 1818. Paris, 1815.

Anatomie pathologique des Organes les plus importants du Corps humain, traduit de l'Anglais de M. Baillie, et enrichie de Notes par M. Guerbois. Paris, 1815.

Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. VI. by the Medical and Chirurgical Society of London, London, 1815.

Annals of Philosophy, No. 37.
Philosophical Magazine for December.
The Monthly Review for December.
The Zoological Miscellany, No. 24.
The European Magazine for December.

25. Meteorological Journal kept on board the Marine Society's Ship at Deptford, for the Years 1814 and 1815.

Mr. S. Rootsey.

Dr. Thomas Thomson.
Mr. Alexander Tilloch.
Mr. Griffiths.
The Editor.
Dr. W. E. Leach.
Mr. J. C. Carpue.

M. Valentin.

Mr. Ch. Dupin.

Don Andres M. del Rio.

Dr. Thomas Young.

Le Bureau des Longitudes de France.
M. Guerbois.

Medical and Chirurgical Society.

Dr. Thomas Thomson.
Mr. Alexander Tilloch.
Mr. G. E. Griffiths.
Dr. W. E. Leach.
The Editor.
Marine Society.
PRESENTS.

Improved Agriculture, and the Suppression of Smuggling, Property Tax, and Poor's Rates, &c. &c. &c., by F. Vanderstraten. London, 1816. 8°

A Treatise on the mineral Waters of Gilsland, by W. Clanny, M. D. Sunderland, 1816. 8°

Feb. 1. Annals of Philosophy, No. 38.
Philosophical Magazine for January.
The European Magazine for January.
8. The Monthly Review for January, and Appendix to Vol. LXXVIII.

15. Medical Transactions, Vol. V. London, 1815. 8°

Transactions of the Horticultural Society, Vol. I. London, 1812, 4to. and Vol. II. Part 1 and 2.
Transactions of the Literary and Philosophical Society of New York, Vol. I. New York, 1815. 4°

Histoire générale des Peches anciennes et modernes, par S. B. Noel. Paris, 1815. 4°

Further Remarks on Dr. Bradley's Theorem, for computing the Astronomic Refraction, by T. S. Evans, LL.D. London, 1815. 8°

Historical Memorandum respecting Experiments intended to ascertain the calorific Powers of the different prismatic Rays, by T. S. Evans, LL.D. London, 1815. 8°

22. A Chart of the Arabian Sea and circumjacent Coast, by Captain James Horsburgh.

29. A Descriptive Catalogue of the British Specimens deposited in the Geological Collection of the Royal Institution. London, 1816. 8°

Tables of the Positions or of the Latitudes and Longitudes of Places, composed to accompany the Oriental Navigator, by James Purdy. London, 1816. 4°

The Philosophical Magazine for February.
Annals of Philosophy, Nov. 39.

Mar. 4. Vetusta Monuments, Vol. IV. Plates 36 to 52.

A Catalogue of the printed Books and Manuscripts in the Library of the Society of Antiquaries of London. London, 1816. 4°

The Inaugural Oration spoken 4th November, 1815, at the Ceremony of laying the first Stone of the London Institution, by Charles Butler, Esq. London, 1816. 8°

14. The Transactions of the Linnean Society of London, Vol. XI. Part 2. London, 1815. 4°

Apr. 4. A Journal of Science and the Arts, No. 1.
Annals of Philosophy, No. 40.
The Philosophical Magazine for March.

DONORS.

Mr. F. Vanderstraten.
Dr. W. R. Clanny.
Dr. Thomas Thomson.
Mr. Alexander Tilloch.
The Editor.
Mr. George Edward Griffiths.
The Royal College of Physicians.
Horticultural Society of London.
The Literary and Philosophical Society of New York.
M. S. B. J. Noel.
Dr. T. S. Evans.
Captain James Horsburgh.
W. T. Brande, Esq.
Messrs. Lawrie and Whittle.
Mr. A. Tilloch.
Dr. Thomas Thomson.
The Society of Antiquaries.
The President and Managers of the London Institution.
The Linnean Society.
Mr. John Murray.
Dr. Thomas Thomson.
Mr. A. Tilloch.
PRESENTS.

The Monthly Review for March.
The European Magazine for March.
A Chinese Poem inscribed on Porcelain, in the 33rd year of the Cycle, A.D. 1776, with a double Translation and Notes, by S. Weston, F.R.S. and F.L.S. London, 1816. 12°

25. Journal des Mines, No. 161, 168, 214.
Essays, Religious and Moral. London, 1812. 12°

The Principles of Fluxions, by the Rev. William Dealy. London, 1816. 8°

The First Centenary of a Series of concise and useful Tables of all the complete decimal Quotients which can arise from dividing a Unit or any whole Number less than each Divisor by all Integers from 1 to 1024.

Des Beautés poetiques de toutes les Langues considérés sous le Rapport de l'Accent et du Rythme, par l'Abbé Ant. Scoppa. Paris, 1816. 8°

Plants of the Coast of Coromandel, Vol. III. No. II. fol.

Mémoires de la Classe des Sciences mathématiques et physiques de l'Institut Imperial de France for 1810, 1811, and Part I, for 1812. Paris. 4°

Mémoires de l'Institut Royal de France, Classe d'Histoire et de Litterature ancienne, Tome I. and XI. Paris, 1815. 4°

Mémoires présentés à l'Institut des Sciences, Lettres, et Arts par divers Savans, et lus dans ses Assemblées, Sciences, Mathematiques, et Physiques, Tome IX. Paris, 1811. 4°

May 2. Annals of Philosophy, No. 41.
The European Magazine for April.
The Monthly Review for April.
The Philosophical Magazine for April.

9. The Principles of Population and Production, by John Weyland, Jun. Esq. London, 1816. 8°

16. Catalogue raisonné des Diamants dans le Cabinet de Sir Abraham Hume, Bart. par M. Le Comte de Bournon. Londres, 1815.

30. Annals of Philosophy, No. 42.

June 13. Journal des Mines, No. 219 and 220.
De l'Education physique de l'Homme par M. Friedlander, D.M. Paris, 1815. 8°

Von der Natur und den Eigenschaften des Lichtes von Placidus Heinrich, St. Petersburgh, 1808. 4°

Die Phosphorescenz der Korper oder die im Dunkeln bemerkbaren Lichtphanomene der anorganischen Natur, von Placidus Heinrich. Nurnberg, 1815. 4°

DONORS.

Mr. Griffiths.
The Editor.
Rev. Stephen Weston.

Ecole des Mines.
Isaac Hawkins Brown, Esq.
Rev. William Dealtry.
Henry Goodwyn, Esq.

The Abbé Scoppa.

The Committée of Warehouses of the East India Company.

The Royal Institute of France.

Dr. Thomas Thomson.
The Editor.
Mr. G. E. Griffiths.
Mr. Alexander Tillock.
John Weyland, Esq.

Sir Abraham Hume, Bart.

Dr. Thomas Thomson.
Ecole des Mines.
Mr. Friedlander.
M. Placidus Heinrich.
PRESENTS.

Monumentum Keplero dedicatum Ratisbonæ die 27 Decembris, Anno 1808. fol.
Memoirs of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Vol. III. Part 2.
Transactions of the Horticultural Society, Vol. II. Part 3 and 4.
Astronomical Observations made at the Radcliffe Observatory at Oxford, from May the 1st. 1815, to May the 1st. 1816. MS.
An Atmospheric Register for indicating Storms at Sea.
An Analysis of the Mineral Waters of Tunbridge Wells, by Charles Scudamore, M. D.
Annals of Philosophy, No. 42.
The Philosophical Magazine for May.
The European Magazine for May.
The Monthly Review for May, and Appendix to Vol. LXXIX.

July 4. Leçons de Mechanique analytique, Tome II. par M. Prony.
A Journal of Science and the Arts, No. 2.
Annals of Philosophy, No. 43.
Philosophical Magazine for June.
Monthly Review for June.
European Magazine for June.
An Engraving of fossil Bones from Cephalonia.
An Address on Zoology and Botany, by C. S. Rafinesque.

July 11, Journal des Mines, No. 225—228.

DONORS.

M. Placidus Heinrich.
American Academy of Sciences.
The Horticultural Society.
Dr. Robertson, by the direction of the Trustees of Dr. Radcliffe.
James Horsburgh, Esq.
Dr. Charles Scudamore.
Dr. Thomas Thomson.
Mr. Alexander Tillock.
The Editor.
Mr. G. E. Griffiths.
M. Prony.
Mr. Murray.
Dr. Thomas Thomson.
Mr. Alexander Tillock.
Mr. G. E. Griffiths.
The Editor.
Count Valsamachi.
C. S. Rafinesque, Esq.
Ecole des Mines.
INDEX

TO THE

PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS

FOR THE YEAR 1816.

A

Alburnum of trees, some observations on it, 292

B

Babbage, C., Esq. An essay towards the calculus of functions; 179
Bendegó, the wonderful rapidity of the growth of plants in the neighbourhood of that river, 277
——— beautiful organic remains of fishes and vegetables found to the northward of it, 277
Binomial theorem, a new demonstration of it, 331
Brewster, David, LL.D. On new properties of heat, as exhibited in its propagation along plates of glass, 46
——— on the communication of the structure of doubly refracting crystals to glass, muriate of soda, fluor spar, and other substances, by mechanical compression and dilatation, 156
——— on the structure of the crystalline lens in fishes and quadrupeds, as ascertained by its action on polarised light, 311
Bromhead, Edward Ffrench, Esq. On the fluents of irrational functions, 335

C

Cipó de Cunanam, a description of a curious plant so called, growing between Monte Santo and the river Bendegó, 219
INDEX.

Circulating blood, experiments and observations to prove that the beneficial effects of many medicines are produced through the medium of it, more particularly that of the colchicum autumnale upon the gout, 257

Circulation, the different kind of substances which produce specific diseases, supposed to be first carried into the circulation, 261

Colchicum autumnale, a specific remedy for the gout, 257

the infusion of it can be received into the circulation without producing any permanent mischief, 262

its beneficial effects upon gout produced through the medium of the circulation, 262

a description of a case where the vinous infusion of it was conveyed into the circulation of a dog by the jugular vein, 260

a description of another case where 160 drops of an infusion of it were introduced into the circulation of a dog, 263

Crystals, doubly refracting, on the communication of their structure to glass, muriate of soda, fluor spar, and other substances, by mechanical compression and dilatation, 156

Crystalline lens, on the structure of it in fishes and quadrupeds, as ascertained by its action on polarised light, 311

Cupim, (white ants), a description of numerous nests of them in Brasil, 278

D

Davy, Sir Humphrey, LL.D. On the fire-damp of coal mines, and on methods of lighting the mines so as to prevent its explosion, 1

an account of an invention for giving light in explosive mixtures of fire-damp in coal mines, by consuming the fire-damp, 23

farther experiments on the combustion of explosive mixtures confined by wire-gauze, with some observations on flame, 115

Diamond, on that employed in cutting glass, 265

a distinction to be made between its powers of scratching and cutting, 265

those which are natural, and distinctly crystallized (termed sparks) preferred for the use of the glazier, 265
INDEX

Diamond, cutting, requires to be moved in a particular direction of one of its edges, the singular durability of its edge accounted for.

Eau medicinale of Husson, a specific remedy for the gout, a description of its effects in a case of gout.

Echeneis remora, a description of the surface of that portion of its head, by which the animal attaches itself to the shark, or the bottom of ships.

Eft, this animal does not belong to the tribe of lizards, but is a nearer approach to that of frogs.

Equations, functional, on those of the second and higher orders involving two or more variables, new methods of solving those of the first order, and also differential equations.

Explosive mixtures, farther experiments on their combustion when confined by wire-gauze, with some observations on flame.

Feet, on those of animals whose progressive motion can be carried on in opposition to gravity, farther observations on those of animals whose progressive motion can be carried on against gravity.

Fire-damp, on that which is produced in coal mines, and on the methods of lighting the mines so as to prevent its explosion, the great sources of it in mines are blowers, or fissures in the broken strata, several specimens of it analysed in the laboratory of the Royal Institution, the same substance as the inflammable gas of marshes, experiments on its combustibility and explosive nature, the degree of heat required to explode it, differs in respect of combustibility from the other common inflammable gases, an endeavour to ascertain the degree of expansion of mixtures of fire-damp and air during their explosion.

MDCCCXVI.
INDEX.

Fire-damp, explosions of it will not pass through very fine wire sieves or wire-gauze, 9
——— description of a lamp so constructed as to prevent the explosion of it, 10
——— experiments on the burning of a flame in atmospheres containing it, 11
——— to prevent explosions of it in coal mines, it is only necessary to use air-tight lanterns, 12
——— breathing an atmosphere containing a certain mixture of fire-damp near or even at the explosive point is not attended with any bad consequence, 19
——— after an explosion of it, miners are sometimes found alive; and the reason of this explained, 19
——— an account of an invention for giving light in explosive mixtures of fire-damp in coal mines by consuming the fire-damp, 23

Flame of combustible bodies, the nature of it considered, 116

Fossil remains of an animal, some farther account of those of which a description was given to the Society in 1814, 318

Fringes, on those produced by rectangular plates, 101
——— on those produced by square pieces of glass, 103
——— on those produced by cylindrical pieces of glass, 103

Functions, an essay towards their calculus, 179
——— the doctrine of them applicable to every part of mathematical enquiry, 256

Functions, exponential, on their development; together with several new theorems relating to finite differences, 25
——— irrational, on their fluents. 335

G

Glass, the sapphire, ruby, and some other substances have the power of cutting it for a short time with a clean fissure, 268

Gout, an appendix to a paper on the effects of the colchicum autumnale on that disease, 262

H

Hatchett, Charles, Esq. Some communications of his on the yolk of eggs, 306

Heat, on new properties of it, as exhibited in its propagation along plates of glass, 46
——— on the transient effects exhibited during its propaga-
INDEX.

tion along plates of glass, or during its communication from glass to surrounding bodies,  
— on the permanent effects produced upon glass by the communication of it to surrounding bodies,  
Hepburn colliery, six specimens of fire-damp collected from that mine, analysed,  
Herschel, John Frederick W., Esq. On the development of exponential functions; together with several new theorems relating to finite differences,  
Holland, H., M. D. On the manufacture of the sulphate of magnesia at Monte della Guardia, near Genoa,  
Home, Sir Everard, Bart. Some account of the feet of those animals whose progressive motion can be carried on in opposition to gravity,  
Experiments and observations to prove that the beneficial effects of many medicines are produced through the medium of the circulating blood, more particularly that of the colchicum autumnale upon the gout,  
An appendix to a paper on the effects of the colchicum autumnale on gout,  
On the formation of fat in the intestine of the tadpole, and on the use of the yolk in the formation of the embryo in the egg,  
Some farther account of the fossil remains of an animal of which a description was given to the Society in 1814,  
Farther observations on the feet of animals whose progressive motion can be carried on against gravity,

I.

Ice, on that found in the bottoms of rivers,  
Iron, native, an account of the discovery of a mass of it in Brasil,  
observations and experiments on the mass of it found in Brasil,

K

Knight, T. A. Esq. On ice found in the bottoms of rivers,  
on the action of detached leaves of plants,
INDEX.

Knight, Thomas, Esq. A new demonstration of the binomial theorem, 331

L

Lacerta Gecko, the foot of that animal described, 150
Lantern, fire-valve, a description of one so called, to be used in coal mines, 22
Lantern, safe, a description of one to be used in coal mines, 12
——— a description of another upon the same principle, but with certain modifications, 14
Leaf stalks, a fluid possessing the power attributed to sap, proved to descend through them, 289
Leaves of plants, detached, on their action, 289

M

Maskelyne, Dr. Demonstrations of his formulae for finding the longitude and latitude of a celestial object from its right ascension and declination; and for finding its right ascension and declination from its longitude and latitude, the obliquity of the ecliptic being given in both cases, 138
Monte della Guardia, near Genoa, on the manufacture of sulphate of magnesia at that place, 294
Mornay, A. F. Esq. An account of the discovery of a mass of native iron in Brasil, 270

N

Nickel, a description of the means employed for detecting the presence of it in native iron, 282

O

Oil, the proportion of it in different ova corresponds with the greater or less degree of hardness of the bones of the foetus, 310

P

Planet, direct and expeditious methods of calculating the excentric from its mean anomaly, 127
Presents, a list of those made to the Royal Society from November 1815, to July 1816, 355

R

Refraction, double, on the communication of it to glass, muriate of soda, and other hard substances, 157
——— on the communication of it either transi-
INDEX.

ently or permanently to animal jellies by gradual induration, and by mechanical compression and dilatation,

Robertson, Abram, D. D. Direct and expeditious methods of calculating the excentric from the mean anomaly of a planet, 172

Demonstrations of the late Dr. Maskelyne's formulæ for finding the longitude and latitude of a celestial object from its right ascension and declination; and for finding its right ascension and declination from its longitude and latitude, the obliquity of the ecliptic being given in both cases, 127

S

Sal Inglese, the name by which the sulphate of magnesia manufactured at Monte della Guardia, is generally known in Italy, 300

Sap, its probable passage from the mature to the young leaves and fruit pointed out, 292

Suckers on the feet of different insects, described, 323

Sulphate of magnesia, on the manufacture of it at Monte della Guardia, near Genoa, 294

T

Tadpole, on the formation of fat in the intestine of that animal, and on the use of the yolk in the formation of the embryo in the egg, 301

the length of its intestine, in proportion to the size of the animal, exceeds that of other animals, 305

the reason of its unusual length of intestine pointed out, 306

Todd, John T., Esq. Some observations and experiments made on the torpedo of the Cape of Good Hope, in the year 1812, 120

Torpedo of the Cape of Good Hope, some observations and experiments made on it, in the year 1812, 120

seldom met with to the eastward of the Cape of Good Hope, 120

Torpedo of the Cape of Good Hope, the shocks received from it not felt above the shoulder, and but seldom above the elbow-joint, 122

the action of its electrical organs perfectly voluntary, 125
INDEX.

Torpedo of the Cape of Good Hope, the frequent action of its electrical organs is injurious to the life of the animal, an intimate relation between its nervous system and electrical organs inferred,

W.

WOLLASTON, WILLIAM HYDE, M.D. On the cutting diamond, observations and experiments on the mass of native iron found in Brasil,

page

125

126

265

281

From the Press of
W. BULMER & Co.
Cleveland-row, St. James's,
London.