# Extract of a Letter from Mr. Henry Green to Mr. James Ayschough, Optician, in Ludgate-Street, Relating to the Earthquake Felt Sept. 30. 1750

**Author(s):** Henry Green  
**Year:** 1749  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions (1683-1775)  
**Volume:** 46  
**Pages:** 3 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-104760  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/104760>  

---

they ran out, fearing the Churches would fall on their Heads; and some were so terrified, they swooned away.

At Stonton, some of the Plaistering of the Church was shaken down; which most terribly frightened the People that were in it, and obliged them to run out. ——— I have not heard of any Damage being done by it more than some Chimnies thrown down, but nobody hurt by them.

P. S. Deene stands close to the Road which leads from Northampton to Stamford; it is about 25 Miles from the former, and 10 from the latter.

LIII.

Extract of a Letter from Mr. Henry Green to Mr. James Ayschough, Optician, in Ludgate-Street, relating to the Earthquake felt Sept. 30. 1750.

Read Oct. 25. 1750.

As I have Room enough, I may as well give you some little Account of the Earthquake which happen'd in this and the neighbouring Counties, on Sunday the 30th of last Month, about half an Hour past 12 at Noon.

The first Shock appear'd to us, at our House, as if a large Stack of Chimnies had fallen through the Roof upon the Chamber-floor over our Heads (which at first we took to be the Case, but in a very
very few Seconds recollected what it was). This was succeeded by a prodigious rolling Noise, as if the whole House was falling upon us, which we expected it would do, before we could get out of it. When we were out, we could not help looking behind us, to see if any thing was fallen; but found all safe. We could perceive the Floor, &c. to shake very sensibly; and a Walking stick, that stood in one Corner of the Parlour, was thrown down: It also shook down several large Stones from off an Heap that lay in the Yard.

A Gentleman, who was walking from his own House to dine with us, happened to lay his Hand upon a Gate, to open it, just after the first Noise, and found the Gate-Posts, &c. to shake and totter about as if they were falling. In a great many Places Service was not ended at Church; and in some the whole Congregation ran out, and happy they that could get out first. A Gentleman of Fortune near Leicester, narrowly escaped being killed by one of his own Chimnies; which fell so near him, that some of the Bricks grazed upon his Shoulder.

By what I can hear, it reached 30 or 40 Miles from us each Way; and I fancy we were not far from the Center of it.

As near as I can judge, it lasted about 20 Seconds at least; but its Duration and Appearance was different to People in different Places.