# Back Matter

**Author(s):** Anonymous  
**Year:** 1855  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London  
**Volume:** 145  
**Pages:** 21 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-108527  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/108527>  

---

INDEX

TO THE

PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS

FOR THE YEAR 1855.

A.

AIRY (G. B.). On the computation of the Effect of the Attraction of Mountain-masses, as disturbing the Apparent Astronomical Latitude of Stations in Geodetic Surveys, 101.
Attraction of mountain-masses, effect of, in geodetic surveys, 53, 101 (see PRATT, AIRY).

B.

BAKERIAN LECTURE, On the Nature of the Force by which Bodies are repelled from the Poles of a Magnet, &c., 1.
BARLOW (W. F.). Observations on the Respiratory Movements of Insects, 139.—Natural respiratory movements of the Dragon-fly, 139; influence of decapitation, 140; influence of shock, 142; respiration in the separate segments of the insect, 143; conclusions, 147.
BARLOW (W. H.). On the existence of an element of Strength in Beams subjected to Transverse Strain, arising from the Lateral Action of the fibres or particles on each other, and named by the author the 'Resistance of Flexure,' 225.—Determination of the neutral axis, 225; effect of lateral action considered, 228; resistance to flexure and increase of strength thence resulting, 230; experiments, 231, &c.
Beams, on an element of strength in, 225 (see BARLOW).
BINNEY (E. W.) and J. D. HOOKER. On the Structure of certain Limestone Nodules enclosed in seams of Bituminous Coal, with a Description of some Trigonocarpons contained in them, 149.

C.

Cairo, recent researches near, 105 (see HORNER).
Cheletropis Huxleyi, anatomy of, 289, 295 (see MACDONALD).
Chemical affinity, on circumstances modifying the action of, 179 (see GLADSTONE).
Chlororubian, 407.
Coloured salts, experiments with, bearing on chemical affinity, 179 (see GLADSTONE).
D.

Definite integrals, on the theory of, 157.
Diamagnetic force, on the, 1 (see Tyndall).
Differential equations, on a class of, 299 (see Donkin).
Donkin (W. F.). On a Class of Differential Equations, including those which occur in Dynamical Problems. Part II., 299.—On the variation of elements, 304; transformation of variables—definition of normal transformations, 213; transformation of coordinates, 317; transformation from fixed to moving axes, 322; differential equations of the planetary theory, 330; application to the problem of Three Bodies, 337; appendices, 349.
Dragon-fly, experiments on the respiration of the, 139 (see Barlow).
Dynamical problems, on the differential equations which occur in, 299 (see Donkin).

E.

Egypt, excavations in, 105 (see Horner).

F.

Frankland (E.). Researches on Organo-metallic Bodies. Second memoir, Zincethyle, 259.—Action of oxygen upon zincethyle, 267; of iodine, 271; of bromine, 273; of chlorine, 273; of sulphur, 273; of water, 274.

G.

Gasteropoda, 289, 295 (see Macdonald).
Geodetic surveys, disturbance of the apparent astronomical latitude in, by mountain attraction, 53, 101 (see Pratt, Airy).
Gladstone (J. H.). On Circumstances modifying the Action of Chemical Affinity, 179.—Ferric sulphocyanide, 182; dependence of the amount of the coloured salt on other substances in the solution, 183, 192; the colour not dependent on the original arrangement of the constituents, 185; influence of mass of one of the substances that produce the salt, 186; other ferric salts, 192; gold, &c. salts, 204; organic substances, 209; general inferences, 212; testimony from other chemical phenomena, 214.

H.

Himalaya mountains, attraction of the, 53 (see Pratt).
Hooker (J. D.) and E. W. Binney. On the Structure of certain Limestone Nodules enclosed in seams of Bituminous Coal, with a Description of some Trigonocarpons contained in them, 149.
Horner (L.). An Account of some recent Researches near Cairo, undertaken with the view of throwing light upon the Geological History of the Alluvial Land of Egypt, 105.—Physical Geography and Geological Structure of Egypt, 109; inundations of the Nile, 114; solid matter conveyed by the Nile, 117; the recent researches, 119; excavations at Heliopolis, 123; description and analyses of the soils, 124; descriptions of the several pits sunk, 131; synopsis of the soils sunk through, 137.
L.

*Limestone nodules*, on the structure of certain, 149.

M.

Macdonald (J. D.). On the Anatomy of *Nautilus umbilicatus*, compared with that of *Nautilus Pompilius*, 277.

Remarks on the Anatomy of *Macgillivrayia pelagica* and *Cheletropis Huxleyi* (Forbes); suggesting the establishment of a new Order of Gasteropoda, 289.

Further observations on the Anatomy of *Macgillivrayia*, *Cheletropis*, and allied genera of pelagic Gasteropoda, 295.

*Macgillivrayia pelagica*, anatomy of, 289, 295.

*Madder*, 389 (see Schunck).

*Magnet*, on the nature of the force by which bodies are repelled from the poles of a, 1 (see Tyndall).

*Megatherium*, Professor Owen on the, 359.

*Muscular fibre*, on the development of striated, in Mammalia, 243.

N.

*Nautilus umbilicatus*, anatomy of, compared with that of *Nautilus Pompilius*, 277.

*Nile*, deposit of the (see Horner).

O.

*Organo-metallic bodies*, researches on, 257 (see Frankland).

Owen (R.). On the Megatherium (*Megatherium Americanum*, Cuvier and Blumenbach). Part II. Vertebrae of the trunk, 359.—Of the spinal column, 368; comparison of the vertebral column, 381.

P.

*Planetary theory*, differential equations of the, 330.

*Polarity*, diamagnetic, 33 (see Tyndall).

Pratt (Archdeacon J. H.). On the Attraction of the Himalaya Mountains, and of the elevated Regions beyond them, upon the Plumb-line in India, 53.—Dissection of the attracting mass, 64; approximation to the amount of attraction, 71; numerical results, 85; excess of calculated results accounted for, 95.

R.

*Resistance of flexure in beams*, 225 (see Barlow).

*Respiratory movements of insects*, on the, 139 (see Barlow).

*Rubian, rubianic acid*, &c., 389 (see Schunck).

Russell (W. H. L.). On the Theory of Definite Integrals, 157.
S.

Savory (W. S.). On the Development of Striated Muscular Fibre in Mammalia, 243.

Schunck (E.). On Rubian and its Products of Decomposition, Part III.—Combined action of alkalies and oxygen on rubian, 389.—Rubianic acid, 393; rubidehydran, 401; rubihydran, 404; action of chlorine on rubian, chlororubian, 407; action of acids on chlororubian, 409; of caustic alkalies, 414; of chlorine, perchlororubian, 417.

T.

Trigonocarpon, affinities of, 149.

Tyndall (J.). On the Nature of the Force by which Bodies are repelled from the Poles of a Magnet; to which is prefixed, an Account of some Experiments on Molecular Influences, 1.

—On the magnetic properties of wood, 6; on the rotation of bodies between pointed magnetic poles, 8; on the distribution of the magnetic force between two flat poles, 13; state of diamagnetic bodies under magnetic influence, repulsions proportional to the squares of the magnetic force, 14; duality of diamagnetic excitement, 23; separate and joint action of a magnet and a voltaic current, 24; diamagnetic polarity, 33; on M. Weber's theory of diamagnetic polarity, and on M. Ampère's theory of molecular currents, 38; note on M. Matteucci's objections, 41; crucial experiment, 44.

Z.

Zincethyle, 259 (see Frankland).
PRESENTS

RECEIVED BY

THE ROYAL SOCIETY,

WITH THE

NAMES OF THE DONORS.

From November 1854 to June 1855.

PRESENTS. DONORS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES.

Amsterdam:—

Verhandelingen der Koninklijke Akademie van Wetenschappen. 1ste Deel. The Academy.
4to. Amsterdam 1854.

Verslagen en Mededeelingen. Deel 1 and 2. Stuk. 1 and 2. 8vo. Amsterdam 1853–54.

Tijdschrift. Deel 1. Afl. 4. Deel 2. Afl. 1 and 2. 8vo. Amsterdam 1848.

Basel:—Verhandlungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft. 1ste Heft. 8vo. The Society.
Basel 1854.

Berlin:—

Abhandlungen der Königlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften. Aus dem Jahre 1853. 4to. Berlin 1854.

Monatsbericht. May to Dec. 1854. Jan. to Apr. 1855. 8vo.

Verzeichniss der von Bradley, Piazzi, Lalande und Bessel beobachteten Sterne, &c. Zone 3. Blatt 4. Zone 6. Blatt 7. Fol. Berlin 1853–54.

Die Fortschritte der Physik. 6 und 7 Jahrgang. 1ste Abth. 8vo. Berlin 1854.

Berwick:—Proceedings of the Berwickshire Naturalists’ Club. Vol. III. No. 5. 8vo. The Physical Society.

Bologna:—

Memorie della Accademia delle Scienze. Tomo IV. 4to. Bologna 1853. The Academy.

Rendiconto delle Sessioni 1852–53. 8vo. Bologna 1853.

Universalità dei Mezzi di Previdenza, Difesa, e Salvezza per le Calamità degli Incendi. 8vo. Bologna 1848.

Bombay:—Transactions of the Bombay Geographical Society. Vol. II. 8vo. The Society.
Bombay 1854.

Bordeaux:—Mémoires de la Société des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles. The Society.
Tom. I. Cahiers 1, 2. 8vo. Bordeaux 1854–55.

Boston:—

Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Vol. III. Parts 1 and 2. 8vo. Boston.

Journal of the Boston Society of Natural History. Vol. VI. No. 3. 8vo. The Society.
Boston 1853.

MDCCLV.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Boston:—
Proceedings. November 1852 to April 1854. 8vo.
Address to the Society by Dr. Warren. 8vo. Boston 1853.

Breslau:—
Novorum Actorum Academiæ Cæsareae Leopoldino-Caroline Naturæ Curiosorum. Vol. XXIV. Part 1 et 2. 4to. Vratislavia et Bonnae 1854.
Fest-Bericht der zehnjährigen Stiftungsfeier des Vereins Deutscher Ärzte in Paris. 4to. Breslau 1854.
Ein und dreissigster Jahres-bericht der Schlesischen Gesellschaft für vaterländische Kultur. 4to. Breslau 1853.

Brussels:—
Mémoires Couronnés et Mémoires des Savants étrangers. Académie Royale des Sciences. Tome XXV. 4to. Bruxelles 1854.
Bulletins: Tome XX. Part 3. Tome XXI. Part 1. 8vo. Bruxelles 1853–54.
Annexe aux Bulletins 1853–54. 8vo.
Annuaire de l'Académie. 20me année, 1854.

Calcutta:—
Journal of the Agricultural and Horticultural Society of India. Vol. V. Part 3. Vol. VI. Part 4. Vol. VII. Part 2. Vol. VIII. Parts 1 to 4. 8vo. Calcutta.
Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal. Nos. 1 to 7, 1854, 1, 1855. 8vo.
Supplementary Number and Title and Index to Vol. XV. 8vo. Calcutta 1846–47.

Christiania: Scripta academica.—
Die Universitäts-Sternwarte in Christiania herausgegeben von C. Hansteen. 4to. Christiania 1849.
Bemaerkninger angaaende Graptolitherne af C. Boeck. 4to. Christiania 1851.
Norsk og Keltisk. Af C. A. Holmboe. 4to. Christiania 1854.
Saga Olafs Konungs ens Helga. 8vo. Christiania 1853.
Aslak Bolts Jordebog. 8vo. Christiania 1852.
Fagrskinna. 8vo. Christiania 1847.

Dublin:—
Royal Irish Academy. Transactions. Vol. XXII. Part 5. 4to. Dublin 1855.
Proceedings. Vol. VI. Part 1. 8vo. Dublin 1854.
Geological Society. Journal. Vol. VI. Part 2. 8vo. Dublin 1855.

Edinburgh:—
Royal Society. Transactions. Vol. XXI. Part 1. 4to. Edinburgh 1854.
Proceedings. Vol. III. No. 44. 8vo.
Transactions of the Royal Scottish Society of Arts. Vol. IV. Part 2. Svo. Edinburgh 1854.
Proceedings of the Architectural Institute of Scotland. Vol. III. Part 2. 8vo. Edinburgh 1854.

Falmouth:—Twenty-first Annual Report of the Royal Cornwall Polytechnic Society, 1853. 8vo. Falmouth.

DONORS.

The Society.
The Academy.
The Society.
The Academy.
The Directors, Hon. East India Company.
The Society.
The Royal University.
The Society.
The Society.
The Society.
The Institute.
The Society.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Frankfurt:—Abhandlungen der Senckenbergischen Naturforschenden Gesellschaft. Band 1. Lief 1. 4to. Frankfurt a M. 1854.

Geneva:—Mémoires de la Société de Physique et d’Histoire Naturelle. Tome XIII. Part 2. 4to. Genève 1854.

Göttingen:—Nachrichten von der Königl. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften, vom Jahre 1854. 8vo. Göttingen.

Haarlem:—Natuurkundige Verhandelingen van de Hollandsche Maatschappij der Wetenschappen. 2de Verzameling. 10de deel. 11de deel. 1ste Stuk. 4to. Haarlem 1854.

Lausanne:—Bulletin de la Société Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles. Nos. 30 to 32. Tom. III. and IV. 8vo. Lausanne 1853–54.

Leeds:—Report of the Proceedings of the Geological and Polytechnic Society of the West Riding of Yorkshire. 8vo. Leeds 1854.

Leipzig:—Berichte über die Verhandlungen der Königlich Sächsischen Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften zu Leipzig. Philologisch-historische Classe. 1 to 6, 1854; 1 and 2, 1855.

Gedächtnissrede auf Seine Majestät Friedrich August König von Sachsen. Von E. Wietersheim. 8vo. Leipzig 1854.

Die Stadtrechte der Latinischen Gemeinden Salpensa und Malaca in der Provinz Baetica, von T. Mommsen. 8vo. Leipzig 1855.

Liège:—Mémoires de la Société Royale des Sciences. Tome IX. 8vo. Liège 1854.

Liverpool:—Proceedings of the Literary and Philosophical Society. No. 8. 1853–54. 8vo. Liverpool 1854.

London:

British Architects. Papers read at the Royal Institute of British Architects, Session 1853–54. 4to. London 1854.

List of Members and Report of the Council, May 1855.

British Association. Report of the Twenty-third Meeting. 8vo. London

Chemical Society. Quarterly Journal. Vol. VII. Parts 2 to 4. Vol. VIII. No. 1. 8vo.

Decimal Association. Proceedings. 8vo. London 1854.

Entomological Society. Transactions. Vol. II. Parts 7 and 8. Vol. III. Parts 1 to 4. 8vo. London 1854–55.

Ethnological Society. Journal. Vols. I, II., III. 8vo. London 1848–54.

Addresses to the Ethnological Society, May 1853, and 1854, by Sir B. C. Brodie, Bart. 8vo. London.

The Ethnological Exhibitions of London, by J. Conolly, M.D. 8vo. London 1855.

A Manuel of Ethnological Inquiry, &c. 8vo. London 1852.

Probable Origin of the American Indians, &c., by J. Kennedy. 8vo. London 1854.

Geological Society. Quarterly Journal. Vol. X. Parts 3 and 4. Vol. XI. Parts 1 and 2. 8vo. 1854–55.

Horticultural Society. Journal. Vol. IX. Parts 3 and 4. 8vo. London 1855.

Linnean Society. Transactions. Vol. XXI. Part III. 4to. London 1854.

DONORS.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Institute.

The Association.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

London:

Linnean Society. Proceedings. Nos. 52 to 58. 8vo.
List of Fellows, 1854.
President's Address, May 1854. 8vo.

Pathological Society. Transactions. Vol. V. 8vo. London 1854.
Photographic Society. Journal. Nos. 18 to 31.
Royal Agricultural Society. Journal. Vol. XV. 8vo. London 1855.
Royal Asiatic Society. Descriptive Catalogue of Historical Manuscripts in the Arabic and Persian Languages. 8vo. London 1854.
Journal. Vol. XVI. Part I. 8vo. London 1854.
Royal Astronomical Society. Memoirs. Vol. XXIII. 4to. London 1854.
Monthly Notices. Vol. XIV., Vol. XV. Nos. 1 to 7. 8vo. London 1853–55.
Royal Geographical Society. Journal. Vol. XXIV. 8vo. London 1854.
Royal Institution. List of Members and Report of Visitors for the years 1853–54. 8vo. London 1855.
Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society. Transactions. Second Series. Vol. XIX. 8vo. London 1854.
Society of Antiquaries. Archaeologia. Vol. XXXV. Part 2. 4to.
Proceedings. Nos. 37 to 40. Vol. III. 8vo. 1853–54.
List of Fellows, 1854.
Society of Arts. Journal. Nos. 82 to 133.
Catalogue of the Seventh Exhibition of Inventions. 8vo. London 1855.
Statistical Society. Journal. Vol. XVII. Parts 3 and 4. Vol. XVIII. Parts 1 and 2.
Index to the first Fifteen Volumes. 8vo. London 1854.
List of Fellows. Session 1854–55.

Madrid:

Estatutos de la Accademia Real. 4to. Madrid 1848.
Resumen de las Actas, 1847–49. 4to. Madrid.
Manchester:—Memoirs of the Literary and Philosophical Society. Second Series. Vol. XI. 8vo. London 1854.

Milan:

Memorie dell' I. R. Istituto Lombardo di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Vol. IV. 4to. Milano 1854.
Giornale. Fasc. 19 to 32. Vols. IV., V., VI. 4to. Milano 1852–54.

Munich:

Abhandlungen der Philosophisch-Philologischen Classe der Königlich Bayerischen Akademie der Wissenschaften. Band 7. Abth. 2.
Math. Phys. Classe. Band 7. Abth. 2.
Historischen Classe. Band 7. Abth. 2. 4to. München 1854.
Denkrede auf die Akademiker Dr. Thaddäus Siber und Dr. Georg Simon Ohm, von Dr. Lamont. 4to. München 1855.
Friedr. Wilh. Joseph v. Schelling, Denkrede von Dr. Hubert Beckers. 4to. München 1855.
Almanach der Akademie...für das Jahr 1855. 8vo. München.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Munich:
- Gelehrte Anzeigen. Bänd. 38, 39. 4to. München 1854.
- Ueber das Klima von München. Festrede von Carl Kuhn. 4to. München 1854.
- Pfalzgraf Rupert der Cavalier. Festrede von Dr. Karl von Spruner. 4to. München 1854.

Naples:
- Atti della Reale Accademia delle Scienze. Vol. VI. 4to. Napoli 1851.
- Rendiconto. No. 24, and Anno 2. Nos. 1 to 5. 4to. Napoli 1853–54.
- Bulletino Archeologico Napolitano. Nuova Serie pubblicato per cura di Giulio Minervini. Anno 2º. 4to. Napoli 1854.

New York:
- Annals of the Lyceum of Natural History. Vol. VI. Nos. 2 to 4. The Lyceum.
- Vol. V. No. 2. 8vo. New York 1854.

Oxford:
- Abstracts of the Proceedings of the Ashmolean Society. Vol. II. and Nos. 31, 32. 1843–54. 8vo. Oxford.

Paris:
- Mémoires présentés par divers Savants à l'Académie des Sciences. Sciences Mathématiques et Physiques. Tome XII. 4to. Paris 1854.
- Comptes Rendus. Liv. 23 à 26 et Tables. Tome XXXVIII., I à 26 Tome XXXIX., 1 à 22 Tome XL. 4to.
- Mémoires présentés par divers Savants à l'Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-lettres. Sujets divers d'Érudition. 1ère Série. Tome IV. 4to. Paris 1854.
- Antiquités de la France. 2me Série. Tome III. 4to Paris 1854.
- Mémoires de l'Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-lettres. Tome XX. 4to. Paris 1854.
- Notice sur les Travaux scientifiques de M. Antoine d'Abbadie. 4to.
- Rapport sur un Mémoire de M. Jules Marcou, relatif à la classification des chaînes de Montagnes d'une partie de l'Amérique du Nord. 4to. 1855.
- Notes pour accompagner le Tableau orographique d'une partie de l'Espagne. 4to. 1855.
- Bulletin de la Société de Géographie. 4me Série. Tomes VII. et VIII. 8vo. Paris 1854.
- Bulletin de la Société de Géologie. 2me Série. Tome XI. Feuilles 4 à 50. 8vo. Paris 1853–54. Tome XII. 1 à 11. 1854–55.
- Journal de l'École Impériale Polytechnique. Tome XX. 4to. Paris 1853.

Philadelphia:
- American Philosophical Society. Transactions. Vol. X. Part 3. 4to. Philadelphia 1853.
- Proceedings. Nos. 49 and 50. 8vo.
- Franklin Institute. Journal. Vol. XXV. No. 5. Vol. XXVI. No. 3. Vol. XXVII. No. 6. Vol. XXVIII. Nos. 1, 3, 4, 5, 6. Vol. XXIX. Nos. 1 to 5. 8vo. Philadelphia 1853–55.

Quebec:
- Transactions of the Literary and Historical Society. Vol. IV. C. R. Weld, Esq. Part III.

San Francisco:
- Proceedings of the California Academy of Natural Sciences. The Academy. No. 1. Vol. I. 1854. 4to. San Francisco.

DONORS.

The Academy.
The Archaeological Society.
The Lyceum.
The Society.
The Institute.
The Society.
L'École Polytechnique.
The Society.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

San Francisco:—Kongl. Vetenskaps-Akademiens Handlingar för år 1852. The Academy.
8vo. Stockholm 1854.

Stockholm:—
Berättelse om Framstegen i Fysik under år 1851. 8vo. Stockholm 1854. The Academy.
Årsberättelse om Botaniska Arbeten och Upptackter för år 1850. 8vo. Stockholm 1854.

Ofversigt. Tionde årgängen 1853. 8vo. Stockholm 1854.

Toronto:—The Canadian Journal, May to December 1854, January to April 1855. 4to. Toronto. The Canadian Institute.

Turin:—Memorie della Reale Accademia delle Scienze. Tomo XIV. 4to. The Academy.
Torino 1854.

Van Diemen's Land:—Papers and Proceedings of the Royal Society. Vol. II. The Society.
Part 2. 8vo. Hobart Town 1853.

Vienna:—
Denkschriften der Kaiserlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften. Phil. Hist. Classe. 5er Band. 4to. Wien 1854. The Academy.
—— Math. Natur. Classe. 7er Band. 4to. Wien 1854.
Sitzungsberichte. Band 11. Heft 4 and 5. Band 12. Heft 1 to 5. Band 13. Heft 1 and 2. 1854. 8vo.
—— Phil. Hist. Classe. Band 11. Heft 5. Band 12. Heft 1 to 5. 8vo. Wien 1854.
Register zu den ersten X. Bänden. 8vo. Wien 1854.
Tafeln zu dem Vortrage: der Polygraphische Apparat. 8vo. Wien 1853.
Die Geologische Uebersichtskarte des mittleren Theiles von Süd-Amerika, von Franz Foetterle. 8vo. Wien 1854.
Geognostische Karte der Umgebungen von Krems und vom Manhardsberge, von J. Czjzek. Sheet 1849.
Jahrbuch der k. k. Geologischen Reichsanstalt. 4er Jahrgang. Nos. 3, 4. 5er Jahrg. Nos. 1, 2. 4to. Wien 1854.
Jahrbücher der k. k. Central-Anstalt für Meteorologie und Erdmagnetismus, von Karl Kreil. Band 1 and 2, 1848–1850. 4to. Wien 1854.

Washington:—
Smithsonian Institution: Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol.VI. The Institution.
4to. Washington 1854.
Seventh and Eighth Annual Reports of the Board of Regents. 8vo. Washington 1853–54.
Directions for collecting, &c. Specimens of Natural History. Second Edition. 8vo. Washington 1854.
The Annular Eclipse of May 26, 1854. 8vo. Washington 1854.
Catalogue of the Described Coleoptera of the United States. 8vo. Washington 1853.
Programme of Organization of the Smithsonian Institution. 4to. 1847.
List of Foreign Institutions in Correspondence with the Smithsonian Institution. 8vo. Washington 1854.
Report on the Construction of the Catalogues of Libraries, &c., by C. C. Jewett. Second Edition. 8vo. Washington 1853.
An Act to establish the Smithsonian Institution. 8vo.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Washington:—

Report of the Special Committee of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, &c. 8vo. Washington 1854.

List of Works published by the Smithsonian Institution. 8vo.

The Ancient Fauna of Nebraska, &c., by J. Leidy, M.D. 4to. Washington 1853.

Descriptions of Ancient Works in Ohio, by C. Whittlesey. 4to. Washington 1852.

Winds of the Northern Hemisphere, by J. H. Coffin. 4to. Washington 1853.

York:—

Proceedings of the Yorkshire Philosophical Society. Vol. I. 8vo. London and York 1855.

Annual Report for 1854.

AIRY (G. B.). Astronomical and Magnetical, and Meteorological Observations made at the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, in the year 1852. 4to. London 1854.

In the year 1853. 4to. London 1855.

Report of the Astronomer Royal to the Board of Visitors. 1855, June 2.

Lecture on the Pendulum Experiments at Harton Pit, &c. 8vo. London 1855.

ANONYMOUS:—

A Catalogue of the Library of the Middle Temple. Parts 1 and 2. 8vo. London 1845.

A Gross Literary Fraud exposed, relating to the Publication of Worcester's Dictionary in London. 8vo. Boston 1853.

Algorithmvs demonstratvs. (Attributed to Regiomontanus.) Quarto, Norimbergae MDXXXIII.

Almanaque Náutico para el Año 1856. 8vo. San Fernando 1854.

Annales des Mines. Vol. IV. 1853. Vol. V. 1854. 8vo.

Catalogue of Stars near the Ecliptic, observed at Markree, during the years 1852, 1853 and 1854, &c. 8vo. Dublin 1854.

Catalogue of the Birds in the Museum of the Hon. East India Company. Vol. I. 8vo. London 1854.

Catalogue of the Fellows, &c. of the Royal College of Physicians. 8vo. London 1854.

Connaissance des Temps, pour l'an 1856. 8vo. Paris 1853.

Considérations Générales sur l'Océan Atlantique, &c. Troisième Edition. 8vo. Paris 1854.

Considérations Générales sur l'Océan Indien, &c. 2me Édition. 8vo. Paris 1854.

Flora Batava. Afl. 176. 4to. Amsterdam.

Instructions Nautiques sur le Détroit des Dardanelles, &c., par M. Le Gros. L'Ateneo Italiano raccolta di documenti e Memorie relative al progresso delle Scienze Fisiche. Compilato da S. de Lucaet D. Müller. Vol. I. 8vo. Parigi.

London University Calendar, 1855.

DONORS.

The Institution.

The Society.

The Admiralty.

The Author.

The Master of the Library.

The Publishers.

Prof. De Morgan.

The Observatory.

L'École des Mines.

Her Majesty's Government.

The Directors, Hon. East India Company.

The College.

Le Bureau des Longitudes.

Le Dépôt de la Marine.

His Majesty the King of the Netherlands.

Le Dépôt de la Marine.

The Editors.

The University.
ANONYMOUS (continued).
Monuments of Ancient Russian Architecture. Divisions 5 and 6. 4to. Moscow, 1853.
Ordinances and Examination Papers (1854) of the Queen's University in Ireland. Fol. Dublin 1854.
Protest and Counter-Statement against the Report from the Select Committee on the National Gallery. 8vo. London 1855.
Quarterly Return of Marriages, Births and Deaths. Nos. 22 to 25. 1854–55.
Reconnaissance Hydrographique des Côtes occidentales du Centre-Amerique, &c. 8vo. Paris 1854.
Report of the Commissioner of Patents for the year 1853. Part 1. Arts and Manufactures. 8vo. Washington 1854.
Agriculture. Part 2. 8vo. Washington 1854.
Tables showing the Number of Criminal Offenders in England and Wales, in the year 1853. Fol. London 1854.
The Civil Engineer and Architect's Journal, Sept. 1854.
The Creation and Deluge according to a New Theory, &c. 8vo. Philadelphia 1854.
The Entomologist's Annual for 1855. Edited by H.T. Stainton. 8vo. London 1855.
The Nautical Almanac for the year 1858. 8vo. London 1854.
The Royal Gallery of Art. Parts 1 to 7. Fol. London 1854–55.
The Statist. Vol. I. No. 1. 8vo. London 1854.
University College, London, Calendar for 1853–54. 8vo. London.
Verhandelingen uitgegeven door de Commissie belast met het vervaardigen eener Geologische Beschrijving en Kaart van Nederland. 2de Deel. 4to. Haarlem 1854.

ATHERTON (C.) The Capability of Steam-ships, based on the mutual Relations of Displacement, Power and Speed; illustrated by Tables, adapted for Mercantile Reference. Second Edition. 8vo. Woolwich 1854.

BABBAGE (C.) On the Constants of Nature: Class Mammalia. 4to.
On the Statistics of Lighthouses. 4to. 1854. Bruxelles.

BACHE (A. D.) Report of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey, during the year 1853. 4to. Washington 1854.

BAILEY (J. W.) Notes on New Species and Localities of Microscopical Organisms. 4to. Washington 1854.

BARBARISI (G.) Richerche Anatomiche sulla Corda del Timpana. 4to. Napoli 1853.

BARBER (G. B.) Ancient Oral Records of the Cimri, or Britons, in Asia and Europe, &c. 8vo. London 1855.

BEDFORD (J.) New Theories of the Universe, explaining how Sun, Moon, Stars, &c. are formed, &c. 8vo. London and Liverpool 1854.

BERTHELOT (M.) Combinaisons de la Glycérine avec les Acides, &c. 8vo. Paris 1854.

BIANCONI (J. J.) Repertorio Italiano per la Storia Naturale. Fasc. 1 and 2. 8vo Bologna 1853.
De Mari olim occupante Planities et Colles Italiciæ, etc. Fasc. 5. 4to. Bononiae 1850.

Donors.
The Prince Demidoff.
The University.
F. Y. Hurlstone and others.
The Registrar-General.
Le Dépôt de la Marine.
The Patent Office, Washington.
The Home Office.
The Editor.
The Author.
The Editor.
The Superintendent.
S. C. Hall, Esq.
The Editor.
University College
His Majesty the King of the Netherlands.
The Author.
The United States Government.
The Author.
The Author.
The Author.
PRESENTS.

BIANCONI (J. J.) Specimina Zoologica Mosambicana. Fasc. 6. 4to. Bononiae 1850.

BIENAYMÉ (J.) Remarques sur les Différences qui distinguent l'Interpolation de M. Cauchy, &c. 4to. Paris 1853.

Considérations à l'appui de la découverte de Laplace sur la loi de Probabilité dans la méthode des Moindres Carrés. 4to. Paris 1853.

Prix de Statistique. Rapport sur le Concours de 1853. 4to.

BIOT (J. B.) Nouvelles Études sur les Réfractions Atmosphériques. 4to. Paris 1855.

BISHOP (J.) Lettsomian Lectures on the Physical Constitution, Diseases, and Fractures of Bones. 8vo. London 1855.

BOECK (W.) Syphilisationen studeret ved Sygesengen. Svo. Christiania 1854.

BÖHM (J. G.) and KUNES (A.) Magnetische und Meteorologische Beobachtungen zu Prag. Zwölfter Jahrgang. 4to. Prag 1854.

BONAPARTE (Prince Charles Lucien.) Coup d'œil sur l'Ordre des Pigeons. 4to. Paris 1855.

BOYER (Baron.) Traité des Maladies Chirurgicales et des Opérations qui leur conviennent. 5me Edit. Tomes I. to VII. 1844–53. 8vo. Paris.

BRAYLEY (E. W.) Supplementary Catalogue of the Library of the Russell Institution. 8vo. London 1854.

BROWN (A.) The Philosophy of Physics, or Process of Creative Development, &c. 8vo. New York 1854.

BROWN (J. B.) On some Diseases of Women admitting of Surgical Treatment. 8vo. London 1854.

BURN (J. H.) A Descriptive Catalogue of the London Traders, Tavern, and Coffee-house Tokens current in the 17th Century. Second Edition. 8vo. London 1855.

CARPENTER (W. B.) On the Development of the Embryo of Purpura Lapillus. 8vo. London 1854.

CARRINGTON (R. C.) Results of Astronomical Observations made at the Observatory of the University of Durham, from October 1849 to April 1852.

CAUTLEY (Sir Proby T.) Short Account of the Ganges Canal. 4to.

CAYLEY (A.) On Hansen's Lunar Theory. 8vo.

CHEVREUL (M. E.) Rapport sur les Tapisseries et les Tapis des Manufactures Nationales, &c. 8vo. Paris 1854.

De la Baguette divinatoire, du Pendule dit Explorateur, &c. 8vo. Paris 1854.

COUSTÉ (E.) Recherches sur l'Incrustation des Chaudières à Vapeur. 8vo. Paris 1854.

CURSETJEE (Manockjee.) A few Passing Ideas for the Benefit of India and Indians. 8vo. Bombay 1853.

DARWIN (C.) A Monograph of the Fossil Balanidae and Verrucidae of Great Britain. 4to. London 1854.

DAUBENY (G. C. B.) On the Importance of the Study of Chemistry as a branch of Education for all Classes. 8vo. 1854.

On the Produce obtained from Barley sown in Rocks of various ages. 8vo.

MDCCCLV.
PRESENTS.

DAVIS (Lieut. C. H.) Tables of the Moon's Parallax, &c. 4to. Washington 1854.

DE KONINCK (L.) and LE HON (H.) Recherches sur les Crinoïdes du terrain carbonifère de la Belgique, &c. 4to. Bruxelles 1854.

DELLA CASA (L.) Considerazioni sull' Elettricità Atmosferica a ciel sereno. 4to. Bologna 1854.

D'ÉTIOLLES (Leroy.) Urologie. Sur les Avantages des Bougies tortillées et crochues, &c. Svo. Paris 1852.

DUBOIS-REYMOND (E.) Ueber Ströme die durch Andrucken feuchter Leiter an metallische Elektroden entstehen. Svo. Berlin 1854.

DUCKETT (G. F.) Technological Military Dictionary, German, English, French. Svo. London 1848.

EHRENBERG (C. G.) Mikrogeologie. Fol. Berlin 1855.

ELLESMER (Earl of) Address to the Royal Geographical Society of London; May 1854. Svo. London 1854.

ENCKE (J. F.) Berliner Astronomisches Jahrbuch für 1857. Svo. Berlin 1854.

EVEREST (Rev. R.) A Journey through the United States and part of Canada. Svo. London 1855.

On the Influence of Social Degradation in producing Pauperism and Crime, &c. Svo.

FARADAY (M.) Experimental Researches in Electricity. Vol. III. Svo. London 1855.

FERRARI (Baron Silvio.) Calcolo Decidozzinae. Dedicato alla Nazione Inglese. 4to. Torino 1854.

FLETCHER (J.) Results of Micrometrical Measurements of Double Stars, &c. 4to. London 1854.

FLOURENS (P.) Histoire de la Découverte de la Circulation du Sang. Svo. Paris 1854.

FROST (C.) Notices relative to the Early History of the Town and Port of Hull, &c. 4to. London 1827.

GIORGINI (Carlo.) Sui Fiumi nei tronchi sassosi e sull' Arno nel Piano di Firenze. Svo. Firenze 1854.

GIOVANINI (G.) Del Trapano-Sega. 4to. Bologna 1853.

GIRARD (C.) Bibliography of American Natural History for the year 1851. Svo. Washington 1852.

Researches upon Nemerteans and Planarians. Part 1. 4to. Philadelphia 1854.

GOEBEL (A.) Der heilsame Meeresschlamm an den Küsten der Insel Oesel, u.s.w. Svo. Dorpat 1854.

GRAVATT (W.) A Letter on Steam Gun-boats of Shallow Draught and High Speed. Svo. London 1854.

GREGSON (S.) Indian Fibres. Svo. London 1854.

GRIFFITH (W. P.) Suggestions for a more perfect and beautiful Period of Gothic Architecture than any preceding, Svo. London 1855.

GRIFFITH (W.) Posthumous Papers... Notulae ad Plantas Asiaticas. Part 4. Dicotyledonous Plants. Svo. Calcutta 1854.

Icones Plantarum Asiaticarum. Part 4. Dicotyledonous Plants.

DONORS.

Office of United States Nautical Almanac.

The Authors.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Royal Geographical Society.

The Observatory, Berlin.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Directors, Hon. East India Company.
PRESENTS.

HAMILTON (W. J.) Address delivered at the Anniversary Meeting of the Geological Society of London, on the 16th of February 1855, 8vo. London 1855.

HAUSMANN (J. F. L.) Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Eisenhohofen-Schläcken. u.s.w. Svo. Göttingen 1854.

HEIS (Dr.) Bildliche Darstellung der zu Münster angestellten meteorologischen Beobachtungen, December 1853 to November 1854. Sheet.

HENRY (J.) Closing Address before the Metropolitan Mechanics' Institute. Svo. Washington 1853.

HILTON (J.) Notes on some of the Developmental and Functional Relations of certain portions of the Cranium. 8vo. London 1855.

HOOD (C.) A Practical Treatise on Warming Buildings by Hot Water, &c. Third Edition. 8vo. London 1855.

HORNSTEIN (K.) Bestimmung der Bahn des Ersten Kometen vom Jahre 1853. 8vo. Wien.

HOWARD (Luke.) Papers on Meteorology, relating especially to the Climate of Britain, &c. 4to. London 1854.

HUXLEY (T. H.) On the Educational Value of the Natural History Sciences. Svo. London 1854.

JAMES, Lieut.-Col. H. (Editor.) Abstracts from the Meteorological Observations taken at the Stations of the Royal Engineers in the year 1853–54. 4to. London 1855.

JOHNSON (M. J.) Astronomical Observations made at the Radcliffe Observatory in the year 1852: and in the year 1853. 8vo. Oxford 1854–55.

JOURNALS:

Astronomische Nachrichten. Nos. 895 to 968.

Cosmos. Revue encyclopédique hebdomadaire des Progrès des Sciences, &c. 3e Année. Vol. V. Liv. 1 à 22, et 24, 25; Vol. VI. Liv. 1 à 24, and Index to Vol. IV.

Journal of the Indian Archipelago. Vol.VIII. Nos.1 to 12. 8vo Singapore 1854.

The American Journal of Science and Arts. Vol. XVIII. Nos. 52 to 54, and Vol. XIX. No. 55.

The Art Journal. Vol. VI. Nos. 68 to 72.

The Athenæum. June to December 1854; January to May 1855.

The Builder. Vol. XII. Parts 6 to 12. Vol. XIII. 1 to 5.

The Literary Gazette. June to December 1854; January to May 1855.

The Philosophical Magazine. July to December 1854; January to June 1855.

KELAART (E. F.) Prodromus Faunæ Zeylanicæ; being Contributions to the Zoology of Ceylon. 8vo. Ceylon 1852.

KUPFFER (A. T.) Compte Rendu Annuel du Directeur de l'Observatoire Physique central, pour l'année 1853. 4to. St. Pétersbourg 1854.

LAMONT (J.) Annalen der Königlichen Sternwarte bei München. Band VII. 8vo. München 1854.

Jahres-Bericht der Königlichen Sternwarte bei München für 1854. 8vo. München 1854.

Magnetische Karten von Deutschland und Bayern, &c. fol. München 1854.

DONORS.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Observatory, Vienna.

The Author.

Her Majesty's Government.

The Radcliffe Trustees.

The Observatory, Altona.

L'Abbé Moigno.

The Editor.

The Editors.

The Editor.

The Editor.

The Editor.

Messrs. Taylor and Francis.

The Author.

The Observatory.

The Observatory.

The Author.
PRESENTS.

LANG (O.) Improvements in Naval Architecture. 8vo. 1853.
LARTIGUE (Mons.) Exposition du Système des Vents, &c. 8vo. Paris 1855.
LAURENT (P.) Études Physiologiques sur les Animalcules des Infusions Végétales, &c. Tom. I. 4to. Nancy 1854.
LEFROY (Capt. J. H.) and RICHARDSON (Sir J.) Magnetical and Meteorological Observations at Lake Athabasca and Fort Simpson; and at Fort Confidence, in Great Bear Lake. 8vo. London 1855.
LEVERSON (M. R.) Copyright and Patents; or, Property in Thought, &c. 8vo. London 1854.
LIEUSSOU (A.) Recherches sur les Variations de la Marche des Pendules et des Chronomètres, &c. 8vo. Paris 1854.
LITTRROW (C. von.) Bemerkungen über das von Herrn M. Eble überreichte "Neue Zeitbestimmungswerk." 8vo. Wien.

Annalen der K. K. Sternwarte in Wien. 1st Band. Jahrgang 1854. 8vo. Wien 1855.
LLOYD (Rev. H.) Notes on the Meteorology of Ireland, &c. 4to. Dublin 1854.
LOW (Prof.) On the Chemical Equivalents of certain Bodies, and on the Relations between Oxygen and Azote. 8vo. Edinburgh 1854.
LUBBOCK (J.) On some Arctic Species of Calanidea. 8vo. London 1854.
MALLET (R.) Notice of the British Earthquake of Nov. 9, 1852. 4to. Dublin 1854.

MAPS, CHARTS, ENGRAVINGS, &c.:
- 2 Maps of the Geological Survey of Great Britain. Nos. 17 & 18.
- 5 Horizontal Sections, do. do. Nos. 31, 32, 33, 34, 37.
- 26 Charts published by the French Government.
- Engraving of Saturn, on the 15th of November, 1852, as seen with the Madras Equatorial. 4to.
- Engraving of Mars, as seen at Madras in the Lerebours Equatorial. 4to.
- Maps, Plans and Engravings relating to the Twemlow Family.
- A Collection of autograph Letters from Franklin, Priestley, Banks and other scientific men, to John Canton, F.R.S.; and one of the first specimens of India-rubber imported into England.

MARTINS (C.) Des Effets observés pendant l'Hiver de 1853 à 1854 dans le Jardin des Plantes de Montpellier. 8vo. Montpellier.
MAURY (Lient. M. F.) Astronomical Observations made at the National Observatory, Washington. Vol. III. 4to. Washington 1853.
- Explanations and Sailing Directions to accompany the Wind and Current Charts. Sixth Edition. 4to. Philadelphia 1854.
- Abstracts of Logs and Charts to accompany the above.

MAYO (T.) Medical Testimony and Evidence in cases of Lunacy. 8vo. London 1854.
MELLONI (M.) La Thermochrōse, ou la coloration calorifique démontrée par un grand nombre d'Expériences, &c. 1ère Partie. 8vo. Naples 1850.
MIERS (J.) Illustrations of South American Plants. Part 5. Vol. I. 4to. London 1850.
MINERVINI (G.) Il Mito di Ercole che succhia il latte di Giunone. 4to. Napoli 1854.

DONORS.

C. E. Lang, Esq.
The Author.
Her Majesty's Government.
The Author.
Dépôt de la Marine.
The Observatory, Vienna.
The Author.
The Author.
The Author.
Her Majesty's Government.
Le Dépôt de la Marine.
The Directors, Hon. East India Company.
J. Twemlow, Esq.
Edwin Canton, Esq.
The Author.
The Observatory.
The Author.
The Author.
The Author.
PRESENTS.

MONTRIOU (C. W.) and FERGUSSON (E. F. T.) Magnetic and Meteorological Observations made at the Honourable East India Company's Observatory, Bombay, in the year 1851. 4to. *Bombay* 1854.

MORRIS (J.) A Catalogue of British Fossils, &c. Second edition. 8vo. *London* 1854.

MOUAT (F. J.) An Atlas of Anatomical Plates of the Human Body, with descriptive Letterpress in English and Hindustani. fol. *Calcutta* 1849.

Elements of Anatomy. Parts 5 & 6. 8vo. *Calcutta* 1848.

MUIRHEAD (J. P.) The Origin and Progress of the Mechanical Inventions of James Watt; illustrated by his Correspondence with his Friends and the Specifications of his Patents. 3 Vols. 4to. *London* 1854.

OLDHAM (T.) Report of the Examination of the Districts in the Damoodah Valley and Beerbhoom producing Iron-ore. 8vo. *Calcutta* 1852.

PARET (D.) Opuscule de Philosophe Physique, &c. MS. fol. *Grenoble* 1854.

PEACOCK (The Very Rev. G.) Life of Thomas Young, M.D., F.R.S. &c. 8vo. *London* 1855.

Miscellaneous Works of the late Thomas Young, M.D., F.R.S. &c. 3 Vols. 8vo. *London* 1855.

PEREIRA (J.) Lectures on Polarised Light. Second Edition. Edited by the Rev. B. Powell. 8vo. *London* 1854.

PLANTAMOUR (E.) Resumé météorologique de l'année 1850 pour Genève et le Grand St. Bernard. 8vo. *Genève* 1851.

POLLOCK (T.) On the Peculiar State of the Atmosphere during the Progress of the late Epidemic, &c. 8vo. *London* 1854.

PRICE (Rev. B.) A Treatise on Infinitesimal Calculus, &c. Vol. II. 8vo. *Oxford* 1854.

PYCROFT (J. W.) The Claim to the Foreshores of the Sea-coast and Tidal Rivers in the Counties of Devon and Cornwall, &c. Printed for Private Circulation. 4to. *London* 1854.

QUETELET (A.) Annales de l'Observatoire Royal de Bruxelles. Tome X. 4to. *Brussels* 1854.

Annuaire de l'Observatoire, 21me année 1854. 16mo.

Almanach Séculaire. 16mo. *Bruxelles* 1854.

Rapport sur l'état et les travaux de l'Observatoire. 8vo.

De l'Influence des Températures sur le développement de la Végétation. 8vo.

Compte Rendu des Travaux du Congrès général de Statistique. 4to. *Bruxelles* 1853.

Sur le Climat de la Belgique. De l'hygrométrie. 4to. *Bruxelles* 1854.

RADCLIFFE (C. B.) The Philosophy of Vital Motion. 8vo. *London* 1851.

Epilepsy and other Affections of the Nervous System, &c. 8vo. *London* 1854.

RATHBONE (T. W.) The Preface to the Comparative Statement on the different Plans of Decimal Accounts and Coinage, &c. 8vo. *London* 1854.

RAZ, RAM. Essay on the Architecture of the Hindús. 4to. *London* 1834.

DONORS.

The Directors, Hon. East India Company.

The Author, per S. P. Pratt, Esq., F.R.S.

The Author.

J. P. Muirhead, Esq.

Mrs. Young.

Rev. B. Powell, F.R.S.

The Author.

The Observatory.

The Author.

The Royal Asiatic Society.
PRESENTS.

REDFIELD (W. C.) On the First Hurricane of September 1853, in the Atlantic, &c. 8vo.

REMAK (R.) Untersuchungen über die Entwicklung der Wirbelthiere. Lief. 1, 2, 3. fol. Berlin 1850, 1851, 1855.

ROBIN (E.) Causes générales de la Vieillesse, de la Mort sémîle, &c. 8vo. Paris 1854.

——— Précis élémentaire de Chimie générale, &c. 2me partie. 1ère cahier. 8vo. Paris 1854.

——— L'Albuminurie dans ses Rapports avec l'Hématose. 8vo. Paris 1854.

ROBINSON (G.) On Electro-Lithotry; or the Application of the Mechanical Force of the Electrical Discharge to the Disintegration of Stone in the Bladder. 4to. London 1855.

ROBINSON (Rev. T. R.) Experimental Researches on the Lifting Power of the Electro-magnet. Part 2. 4to. Dublin 1854.

ROYLE (J. F.) The Fibrous Plants of India fitted for Cordage, Clothing and Paper, &c. 8vo. London 1855.

SAVOYEN (L.) Nouvelles Études Philosophiques sur la Dégénération physique et morale de l'Homme. 8vo. Paris 1854.

SCHLAGINTWEIT (Adolph and Hermann). Neue Untersuchungen über die Physicalische Geographie und die Geologie der Alpen. 4to. Leipzig 1854.

——— Atlas. fol. Leipzig 1854.

SCHMIDT (C.) Die Salzquellen zu Staraja-Russa, u.s.w. 8vo. Dorpat 1854.

SCHÖNEMANN (F.) Ueber die Beziehungen welche zwischen den Wurzeln irreductibler Gleichungen stattfinden. 4to. Wien 1853.

——— Von der Empfindlichkeit der Brückenwagen. 4to. Wien 1853.

SCHOOLCRAFT (H. R.) Summary Narrative of an Exploratory Expedition to the Sources of the Mississippi River, in 1820, &c. 8vo. Philad. 1855.

SCHULTZE (M. S.) Über den Organismus der Polythalamien, &c. fol. Leipzig 1854.

SHADWELL (Capt. C. F. A.) Notes on the Management of Chronometers and the Measurement of Meridian Distances. 8vo. London 1855.

SIBSON (F.) Medical Anatomy. Fasc. 1. fol. London.

SILJESTRÖM (P. A.) Afhandlingar i Fysika och Filosofiska Ämnen. Första Häftet. 8vo. Stockholm 1854.

SITGREAVES (Capt. L.) Report of an Expedition down the Zuni and Colorado Rivers. 8vo. Washington 1853.

SMEE (A.) An Introductory Discourse on the Objects and Advantages of Educational Lectures, &c. 8vo. London 1854.

SMITH (C. R.) Notes on some of the Antiquities of France, &c. 8vo. London 1855.

SOLLY (E.) On the Mutual Relations of Trade and Manufactures. 8vo. London 1855.

SPRENGER (A.) A Catalogue of the Arabic, Persian and Hindústány Manuscripts of the Libraries of the King of Oudh; compiled under the Orders of the Government of India. 8vo. Calcutta 1854.

DONORS.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Authors.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The United States Government.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Directors, Hon. East India Company.
PRESENTS.

STEINER (J.) Eigenschaften der Curven vierten Grads rücksichtlich ihrer Doppeltangenten. 4to. Berlin 1852.

STRANG (J.) Social and Economical Statistics of Glasgow, &c. 8vo. Glasgow 1855.

STRECKER (A.) Das chemische Laboratorium der Universität Christiania und die darin ausgeführten chemischen Untersuchungen. 4to. Christiania.

SYLVESTER (J. J.) A Probationary Lecture on Geometry, delivered before the Gresham Committee. 8vo. London 1854.

TAYLOR (T. G.), WORSTER (W. K.), and JACOB (W. S.) Meteorological Observations made at the Hon. East India Company's Magnetical Observatory at Madras, 1846–50. 4to. Madras 1854.

TOOKE (W.) The Monarchy of France: its Rise, Progress, and Fall. 8vo. London 1855.

TWINING (Elizabeth.) Illustrations of the Natural Orders of Plants, &c. Parts 29 to 38. fol. London 1854, 1855.

VAUGHAN (D.) The Destiny of the Solar System. 8vo. Cincinnati 1854.

WALDHEIM (G. Fischer de.) Entomographie de la Russie. Tom. V. 4to. Moscou 1851.

WARBURTON (H.) On Self-repeating Series. 4to. Cambridge 1854.

WARD (Capt. H.) An Inquiry into the Application of the Voltaic Battery to Military Purposes. 8vo.

WARD (S. H.) On Wardian Cases for Plants, and their Applications. 8vo. London 1854.

WARREN (J. C.) Remarks on some Fossil Impressions in the Sandstone Rocks of Connecticut River. 8vo. Boston 1854.

Genealogy of Warren, with some Historical Sketches. 4to. Boston 1854.

WEISBACH (J.) Die Experimental-Hydraulik. 8vo. Freiberg 1855.

WEISSE (Dr. Max.) Allgemeine Übersicht der an der k. k. Krakauer Sternwarte vom Jahre 1826 bis 1853 gemachten Meteorologischen Beobachtungen. 4to. Krakau 1853.

Spostrzeznia w Obserwatoryum Astronomiczném Krakowskiém, 1849 to 1851. 8vo.

WELD (C. R.) A Vacation Tour in the United States and Canada. 8vo. London 1855.

WESTWOOD (J. O.) Anniversary Addresses to the Entomological Society, 1852, 1853. 8vo.

Observations on Tsetse, Zimb, and Tsaltsalya, &c. 8vo. London 1850.

WILLIAMS (D. H.) A geological Report on the Damoodah Valley. 8vo. Calcutta 1853.

A geological Report on the Kymore Mountains, the Ramghur Coal-fields, &c. 8vo. Calcutta 1852.

WILLIAMS (W.) An Essay upon the Philosophy of Evidence, &c. Second Edition. 8vo. London 1855.

WILLICH (C. M.) Income Tax Tables. Fourth Edition. 8vo. London 1853.

Annual Supplement to Willich's Tithe Commutation Tables, 1854, Third Edition; and 1855. 8vo. London.

DONORS.

The Author.

The Author.

The University, Christiania.

The Author.

The Directors, Hon. East India Company.

The Author.

R. Twining, Esq., F.R.S.

The Author.

The Author.

N. B. Ward, Esq., F.R.S.

The Author.

The Author.

T. Oldham, Esq., F.R.S.
PRESENTS.

WILSON (H. H.) A Glossary of Judicial and Revenue Terms, and of Useful Words occurring in Official Documents relating to the Administration of the Government of British India; from the Arabic, Persian, Hindustáni, &c. 4to. London 1855.

WOOLNOUGH (C. W.) The Art of Marbling, as applied to Book-edges and Paper, &c. 8vo. London 1853.

WORSTER (Capt. W. K.) and JACOB (W. S.) Astronomical Observations made at the Honourable the East India Company's Observatory at Madras, for the years 1848-52. 4to. Madras 1854.

YATES (J). On the French System of Measures, Weights and Coins, &c. 8vo. London 1854.

DONORS.

The Directors, Hon. East India Company.

The Author.

The Directors, Hon. East India Company.

The Author.