# Back Matter

**Author(s):** Anonymous  
**Year:** 1803  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London  
**Volume:** 93  
**Pages:** 16 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-107082  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/107082>  

---

PRESENTS

RECEIVED BY THE

ROYAL SOCIETY,

From November 1802 to June 1803;

WITH THE

NAMES OF THE DONORS.

1802.

PRESENTS.

Nov. 4. Vetusta Monumenta, Vol. IV. Plate 3d.

Journals of the Royal Institution of Great Britain, No. 10, 11, and 12.

Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, Vol. V. Part II. 1802.

Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy. Vol. VIII. Dublin, 1802.

Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, held at Philadelphia. Vol. V. Philadelphia, 1802.

Meteorological Journal kept on board the Marine Society's Ship, in the Years 1800 and 1801. MS.

Abstract of the Answers and Returns made pursuant to the Population Act. Ordered to be printed 21 Dec. 1801. 2 Vols.

Analytical Institutions, by Donna Maria G. Agnesi; translated by the late Rev. John Colson. London, 1801. 2 Vols.

Specimens of British Minerals, selected from the Cabinet of P. Rashleigh. The Second Part. London, 1802.

A General Atlas, published by Robert Wilkinson: Europe, Asia, Africa, France.

Histoire de la Mesure du Tems par les Horloges, par Ferd. Berthoud. Paris, 1802. Tomes 2.

Beiträge zur chemischen Kenntniss der Mineralkörper, von M. H. Klaproth. 3 Band. Berlin, 1802.

Bibliotheque Britannique. No. 153—158.

DONORS.

The Society of Antiquaries.

The Managers of the Royal Institution.

The Royal Society of Edinburgh.

The Royal Irish Academy.

The American Philosophical Society.

The Marine Society.

Right Hon. Charles Abbot, F. R. S.

The Rev. John Hellins, B. D. F. R. S.

Philip Rashleigh, Esq. F. R. S.

John Wilkinson, M. D. F. R. S.

M. Berthoud, F. R. S.

Professor Klaproth, F. R. S.

Professor Pictet, F. R. S.
Journal des Mines. No. 68—71.

Mémoire sur l'Intégrabilité médiate des Equations différentielles, par C. F. de Nieuport. Bruxelles, 1802.

Della Scoperta del nuovo Pianeta Cerere Ferdinandea. Palermo, 1802.

An Account of the English Colony in New South Wales, by Lieut. Col. Collins. Vol. II. London, 1802.

Fasciculus I. and II. of a Synopsis of the British Confervae, by L. W. Dillwyn. London, 1802.

A Journal of Natural Philosophy, by W. Nicholson. No. 7—11.

The Philosophical Magazine, by A. Tilloch. No. 50—53.

Considerations on the Substance of the Sun, by A. B. Woodward. Washington, 1801.

Nov. 11. The Charter and Bye Laws of the Royal College of Surgeons in London. London, 1802.

Saggio di Esperienze sul Galvanismo, di Gio. Aldini. Bologna, 1802.

25. A Series of Engravings to illustrate the Morbid Anatomy of the Human Body, by M. Baillie. Fascic. X. London, 1802.

Selenotopographische Fragmente, von J. H. Schröter. 2 Theil. Gottingen, 1802.

Cours de Physique céleste, par J. H. Hassenfratz. Paris, 1803.

The Anniversary Sermon of the Royal Humane Society, by R. Valpy. London, 1802.

Dec. 9. Journals of the Royal Institution of Great Britain. No. 13.

Analyse détaillée de différentes Questions qui se rapportent au Mouvement d'un Corps sollicité par des Puissances quelconques, par R. Prony. Paris, An. 9.

Institution pratique sur une Méthode pour déterminer les Dimensions des Murs de revêtement, en se servant de la Formule graphique de R. Prony. Paris, An. 10.

Recherches sur la Poussée des Terres, et sur la Forme et les Dimensions à donner aux Murs de revêtement, par R. Prony. Paris, An. 10.

Mémoire sur le Jaugeage des Eaux courantes, par R. Prony. Paris, An. 10.

Recueil en Ordre alphabetique de Noms de Minéralogie, par le Prince D. de Galizin. Brunswick, 1802.

Meteorological Journal kept at Cumberland House,

Le Conseil des Mines de la Republique Française.

M. de Nieuport, de l'Institut de France.

M. Piazzi.

Lieut. Colonel Collins.

Lewis Weston Dillwyn, Esq.

Mr. William Nicholson.

Mr. Alexander Tilloch.

Mr. Augustus B. Woodward.

The Royal College of Surgeons.

Professor Aldini, of Bologna.

Matthew Baillie, M. D. F. R. S.

Dr. Schröter, F. R. S.

M. Hassenfratz.

The Rev. R. Valpy, D.D.

The Managers of the Royal Institution.

M. Prony, de l'Institut de France.

Prince Dimitri de Galizin, F. R. S.

Joseph Colen, Esq.
from Oct. 14, 1778, to March 4th, 1779; and from Feb. 23 to June 3, 1790. MS. fol.
Meteorological Journal kept at Moose Fort, from August 1, 1795, to April 5, 1797. MS. fol.
Meteorological Journal kept at Carlton House, from Nov. 1, 1795, to April 30, 1796. MS. fol.
Meteorological Journal kept at York Fort, Hudson's Bay, from Sept. 1, 1796, to July 5, 1797. MS. fol.
Meteorological Journal kept at Buckingham House, from October 23, 1796, to May 9, 1797.

A Journal of Natural Philosophy, by W. Nicholson. No. 12.

An Inquiry into the Causes of the Errors and Irregularities which take place in ascertaining the Strengths of spirituous Liquors by the Hydrometer, by W. Speer. London, 1802.

The Philosophical Magazine, by A. Tilloch. No. 54.

Dec. 16. Carte du Canal royal de la Province de Languedoc, levée par les Ordres des Etats Généraux de la dite Province. 1774. 15 sheets.

Histoire du Canal du Midi, connu précédemment sous le Nom du Canal de Languedoc, par F. Andreossy. Paris, An. 8.

Campagne sur le Mein et la Rednitz, de l'Armée Gallo Batave aux Ordres du Général Augereau. Paris, 1802.

Mémorial topographique et militaire, rédigé au Dépôt général de la Guerre. No. 1 et 2. Paris, An. 11.

Observations sur le Lac Moeris.

23. Tables requisite to be used with the Nautical Ephemeris. London, 1802.

1803.

Jun. 13. A Journal of Natural Philosophy, by W. Nicholson. No. 13.

The Philosophical Magazine, by A. Tilloch. No. 55.

Journals of the Royal Institution of Great Britain. No. 14.

20. Astronomisches Jahrbuch für das Jahr 1805, von J. E. Bode. Berlin, 1802.

J. E. Bode von dem neuen achten Hauptplaneten des Sonnen Systems. Berlin, 1802.

Osservazioni su i Punti fondamentali della Dottrina del Citt. Quatremere Disjonal, rapporto all'Origine delle Arti, de'Culti, del Linguaggio, e della Scrittura, del Citt. L. Bossi. Torino, An. 11.

Joseph Colen, Esq.

Mr. William Nicholson.

Mr. William Speer.

Mr. Alexander Tilloch.

His Excellency the French Ambassador.

The Commissioners of Longitude.

Mr. William Nicholson.

Mr. Alexander Tilloch.

The Managers of the Royal Institution.

Mr. J. E. Bode, F. R. S.

Sig. Luigi Bossi.
PRESENTS.

A Practical Treatise of Perspective, by E. Edwards. London, 1803. 4°

Observations on the Constitution of Women, and on some of the Diseases to which they are more especially liable, by S. Walker. London, 1803. 12°

27. Histoire de l'Empire de Russie, par M. Tooke, traduite de l'Anglais. Paris, 1801. Tomes VI. 8°

Feb. 3. An Essay on the Relation between the specific Gravities and the Strengths and Values of Spirituous Liquors, by Atkins and Co. London, 1803. 4°

A Journal of Natural Philosophy, by W. Nicholson. No. 14.

The Philosophical Magazine, by A. Tilloch. No. 56.

10. Journal de Chimie et de Physique, par J. B. van Mons. No. 8 et 9.

17. An Account of the Galvanic Experiments performed by J. Aldini on the Body of a Malefactor. London, 1803. 8°

24. A Tour through the Taurida, or Crimea, by Mrs. Maria Guthrie. London, 1802. 4°

Georgical Essays, by A. Hunter. York, 1803. 4 Vols. 8°

A Synopsis of the British Fuci, by D. Turner. Yarmouth, 1802. 8°

The Principles of Analytical Calculation, by R. Woodhouse. Cambridge, 1803. 4°

A Table to compare a new System of English with the new System of French Measures and Weights. fol.

Mar. 3. Charter and Bye Laws of the Linnean Society of London. London, 1802. 4°

A Geometrical Treatise of Conic Sections, by A. Robertson. Oxford, 1802. 8°

The Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy, by Sir Isaac Newton. London, 1803. 3 Vols. 8°

The Gentleman's Mathematical Companion for the Year 1803. London, 1802. 12°

Portrait of Colin Maclaurin, A.M. engraved by S. Freeman.

A Journal of Natural Philosophy, by W. Nicholson. No. 15.

The Philosophical Magazine, by A. Tilloch. No. 57.

10. Transactions of the Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce. Vol. XX. London, 1802. 8°

DONORS.

Mr. Edward Edwards.

Sayer Walker, M.D.

The Rev. William Tooke, F.R.S.

Messrs. Atkins and Co.

Mr. William Nicholson.

Mr. Alexander Tilloch.

M. van Mons, of Brussels.

Professor Aldini, of Bologna.

Matthew Guthrie, M.D. F.R.S.

Alexander Hunter, M.D. F.R.S.

Dawson Turner, Esq. F.R.S.

Robert Woodhouse, Esq. F.R.S.

Henry Goodwyn, Esq.

The Linnean Society of London.

The Rev. Abram Robertson, A.M., F.R.S.

Mr. William Davis.

Mr. William Nicholson.

Mr. Alexander Tilloch.

The Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, & Commerce.
PRESENTS.

24. Bibliotheque Britannique No. 159—168. Journey from India towards England, in the Year 1797. London, 1799.

31. Voyage en Angleterre, en Ecosse, et en Irlande, par M. A. Pictet. Geneve, 1802.

A Meteorological Journal of the Year 1802, kept in London by W. Bent. London, 1803.

Meteorological Observations made at Chesterfield House, from Nov. 11, 1801, to April 21, 1802. MS. fol.

April 21. Bibliotheque Britannique. No. 169—172. Resultats de l'Inoculation de la Vaccine dans les Departemens de la Meurthe, de la Meuse, des Vosges, et du Haut-Rhin, par L. Valentin. Nancy, 1802.

A Journal of Natural Philosophy, by W. Nicholson. No. 16.

The Philosophical Magazine, by A. Tilloch. No. 53.

May 5. Memoires de l'Institut National des Sciences et Arts. Tome 4me. des trois Classes. Paris, An. 11. Tomes III.

Memoire sur la Collection des grands et petits Voyages, et sur la Collection des Voyages de M. Thevenot, par A. G. Camus. Paris, 1802.

Asiatick Researches. Vol. VII. Calcutta, 1801.

Bibliotheque Britannique. No. 173, 174.

A Journal of Natural Philosophy, by W. Nicholson. No. 17.

The Philosophical Magazine, by A. Tilloch. No. 59.

19. Memoire sur un Graphometre souterrain, destine à remplacer la Boussole dans les Mines, par M. de Komarzewski. Paris, 1803. fol.

Memoir on a subterraneous Graphometer, by J. Komarzewski. Paris, 1803. fol.

Nuovo Sistema del Suono, Dissertazione di G. T. 8°

June 9. Vetusta Monumenta, Vol. IV. Plates 5, 6, and 7.

Journals of the Royal Institution of Great Britain. No. 15.

Annals of Medicine for the Year 1802, by A. Duncan, sen. and A. Duncan, jun. Vol. II. Lustrum 2. Edinburgh, 1803.

A Journal of Natural Philosophy, by W. Nicholson. No. 18.

The Philosophical Magazine, by A. Tilloch. No. 60.

DONORS.

Professor Pictet, F. R. S.

John Jackson, Esq.

Professor Pictet, F. R. S.

Mr. William Bent.

Joseph Colen, Esq.

Professor Pictet, F. R. S.

Louis Valentin, M. D.

Mr. William Nicholson.

Mr. Alexander Tilloch.

The National Institute of France.

The Asiatick Society of Bengal.

Professor Pictet, F. R. S.

Mr. William Nicholson.

Mr. Alexander Tilloch.

Lieut. General Komarzewski, F. R. S.

Sig. Gius. Terzi.

The Society of Antiquaries.

The Managers of the Royal Institution.

Andrew Duncan, sen. M. D. and Andrew Duncan, jun. M. D.

Mr. William Nicholson.

Mr. Alexander Tilloch.
16. Fasciculus III. of a Synopsis of the British Con-
fervæ, by L. W. Dillwyn.
Metrologies constitutionelle et primitive, com-
parées entre elles et avec la Metrologie d’Ordon-
nance. Tomes II. Paris, 1801.
Journal des Mines. No. 76, 77—79, 8o.

Lewis Weston Dillwyn,
Esq.
M. Lesparat.

Le Conseil des Mines de
la Republique Fran-
çaise.
## INDEX

TO THE

PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS

FOR THE YEAR 1803.

| A | page |
|---|------|
| **Air**, atmospherical, on its absorption by water, | 37 |
| Alloys, experiments and observations on those of gold, | 43, 46 |
| Ambuscade; account of the sinking and recovery of the Dutch frigate so called, | 321 |
| Annealing, its effects on gold, | 127 |
| Antimony, its effects on gold, | 53, 93 |
| —— its effects on copper, | 88 |
| Arc of the meridian, account of the measurement of, | 383 |
| —— See Survey. | |
| Arragonite, remarks on, | 331 |
| Arsenic, its effects on gold, | 47, 93 |
| Astringent Vegetables, experiments and observations on, | 233 |

| B | |
|---|---|
| Barks, on the infusions of them, | 260 |
| Bingley, Mr. Experiments upon gold alloyed with tin, | 75 |
| Bismuth, its effects on gold, | 66, 93, 104 |
| Bootis ε, on its motion, | 372 |
| Bournon, The Count de. Observations on a new species of hard carbonate of lime; also on a new species of oxide of iron, | 325 |
| Budding, remarks on that operation, | 285 |
| Buds, on their formation in tuberous rooted plants, | 288 |

| C | |
|---|---|
| Calamine, chemical analysis of several kinds, | 12 |
| —— from Bleyberg, analysis of, | 13 |
| —— from Somersetshire, analysis of, | 15 |
### INDEX

| Topic                                                                 | Page |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------|------|
| Calamine from Derbyshire, analysis of                                | 17   |
| --- electrical, analysis of                                          | 18   |
| Carbonate of lime, observations on a new species of                  | 325  |
| Catechu, experiments and observations on                             | 252  |
| Cavendish, Mr. Description of some instruments for trying the effects of friction | 140  |
| Chenevix, Richard, Esq. Observations on the chemical nature of the humours of the eye | 195  |
| --- Enquiries concerning the nature of a metallic substance lately sold in London, as a new metal, under the title of Palladium | 290  |
| Chesnut, Spanish, on the infusions of its bark                       | 260  |
| --- on its internal organisation                                     | 282  |
| Cobalt, its effects on gold                                          | 59   |
| Coin, Committee appointed to consider that of this kingdom          | 43   |
| --- extract from a report respecting gold coin                      | 135  |
| --- on the kind of gold best adapted for it                         | 185  |
| Copper, its effects on gold                                          | 84, 93 |
| --- effects of lead on it                                            | 88   |
| --- effects of antimony on it                                        | 88   |
| --- effects of bismuth on it                                         | 88   |
| --- experiments on various kinds                                     | 90   |
| --- on the varieties of Swedish copper                               | 90   |
| Crystalization, remarks on                                           | 27   |

**D**

| Topic                                                                 | Page |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------|------|
| Davy, Humphry, Esq. An account of some experiments and observations on the constituent parts of certain astringent vegetables; and on their operation in tanning | 233  |
| Dip at sea, method of measuring                                      | 1, 10 |
| Dollars, on the copper ones of Sweden                                 | 90   |

**E**

| Topic                                                                 | Page |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------|------|
| Eisenglimmer, on the iron ore so called                              | 337  |
| Elm, on the infusions of its bark                                    | 266  |
| Emery, experiments on, with gold                                     | 81   |
| Eye, on the chemical nature of its humours                           | 195  |
| Eyes of sheep, experiments on                                        | 196  |
| --- human, experiments on                                             | 198  |
| --- of oxen, experiments on                                           | 198  |
| F |
|---|
| Fer oligiste, on the iron ore so called, | 336 |
| —— oxidulé, on the iron ore so called, | 337 |
| Flos ferri, remarks on, | 330 |
| Friction, its effects on the specific gravity of gold, | 124 |
| —— on the different kinds to which gold coin is exposed, | 138 |
| —— description of some instruments for trying its effects, | 140 |
| —— experiments on the wear caused by it, | 148 |
| Frigate, accounts of the sinking and recovery of one, | 321 |

| G |
|---|
| Galls, on the infusions of them, | 239 |
| Garbetts, Messrs. Extract from their report concerning gold coin, | 135 |
| Gas, on the quantity of gases absorbed by water, | 29, 274 |
| —— on the absorption of gases under the pressure of the atmosphere, | 30 |
| —— on the influence of pressure in promoting the absorption of gases, | 39 |
| —— carbonic acid, on its absorption by water, | 33, 274 |
| —— sulphuretted hydrogen, on its absorption by water, | 36, 274 |
| —— nitrous oxide, on its absorption by water, | 36, 275 |
| —— nitrous, on its absorption by water, | 37, 276 |
| —— oxygenous, on its absorption by water, | 37, 276 |
| —— phosphuretted hydrogen, on its absorption by water, | 37, 276 |
| —— gaseous oxide of carbon, on its absorption by water, | 37, 276 |
| —— carburetted hydrogen, on its absorption by water, | 37, 276 |
| —— azotic, on its absorption by water, | 37, 276 |
| —— hydrogen, on its absorption by water, | 37, 276 |
| Geminorum α, on its motion, | 345 |
| Gold, on its various alloys, specific gravity, and comparative wear, | 43 |
| —— on its various alloys, | 46 |
| —— effects of arsenic on it, | 47, 93 |
| —— effects of antimony on it, | 53, 93 |
| —— effects of zinc on it, | 57, 93 |
| —— effects of cobalt on it, | 59 |
| —— effects of nickel on it, | 61 |
| —— effects of manganese on it, | 62 |
| —— effects of bismuth on it, | 66, 93, 104 |
| —— effects of lead on it, | 69, 93, 104 |
| —— effects of tin on it, | 72, 93 |
| —— effects of iron on it, | 77, 93 |

MDCCCIII.
INDEX.

Gold, effects of platina on it, .................................................. 82
effects of copper on it, .......................................................... 84, 93
effects of silver on it, ............................................................ 91, 93
experiments on it with emery, ............................................... 81
on its specific gravity when alloyed by various metals, ............... 96
expansion and contraction produced in it by different alloys, ........ 106
on the variation in its specific gravity from unequal diffusion of the alloy, ........................................................................ 115
on the effects of friction, on its specific gravity, ......................... 124
on the effects of annealing, on its specific gravity, ...................... 127
on the effects of rolling, on its specific gravity, .......................... 127
statement of different authors, respecting its specific gravity, ...... 130
on its comparative wear, when alloyed by various metals, .......... 138
on the kind best adapted for coin, ......................................... 185
Gravity, specific, on that of gold, when alloyed by various metals, .. 43, 96
effects of lead on that of gold, .................................................. 104
effects of bismuth on that of gold, .......................................... 104
on the variation in that of gold, from unequal diffusion of the alloy, ..................................................................... 115
on the effects of friction, on that of gold, ................................... 124
on the effects of annealing, on that of gold, ................................. 127
on the effects of rolling, on that of gold, .................................... 127
various causes of variation in that of metals, ................................ 128
statement of different authors, respecting that of fine and standard gold, ................................................................. 130
statement of that of various gold coins, ..................................... 137

Greville, The Right Hon. Charles. Account of some stones said to have fallen on the earth in France; and of a lump of native iron, said to have fallen in India, .................................................. 200

H

Hatchett, Charles, Esq. Experiments and observations on the various alloys, on the specific gravity, and on the comparative wear of gold. Being the substance of a report made to the Right Honourable the Lords of the Committee of Privy Council, appointed to take into consideration the state of the coins of this kingdom, and the present establishment and constitution of his Majesty's mint ................................................................. 43

Henry, Mr. William. Experiments on the quantity of gases absorbed by water, at different temperatures, and under different pressures, .............................................................. 29, 274
INDEX.

Herschel, William, LL.D. Observations of the transit of Mercury over the disk of the sun; to which is added, an investigation of the causes which often prevent the proper action of mirrors, 214

Account of the changes that have happened, during the last twenty-five years, in the relative situation of double stars; with an investigation of the cause to which they are owing, 339

Herculis ζ, on its motion, 378

Home, Everard, Esq. Observations on the structure of the tongue; illustrated by cases in which a portion of that organ has been removed by ligature, 205

Humours of the Eye, on their chemical nature, 195

I

Iron, its effects on gold, 77, 93
— native, account of a lump, said to have fallen in India, 200
— oxide of, on a new species, 325, 335
— remarks on various kinds, 336

J

Jehangire, Emperor, extract from his memoirs, 202

K

Kirkepatrick, Colonel. Translation of an extract from the memoirs of the Emperor Jehangire, 202

Knight, Thomas Andrew, Esq. Account of some experiments on the descent of the sap in trees, 277

L

Latitudes of various places and objects, referred to the meridian of Greenwich, 505

Lead, its effects on gold, 69, 93, 104

Lecture, Bakerian, 1

Leonis γ, on its motion, 366

Lime, hard carbonate of, on a new species, 325

Longitudes of various places and objects, referred to the meridian of Greenwich, 505
### INDEX

**M**

- **Manganese**, its effects on gold, 62
- **Merat Guillot, M.** remarks on his method of obtaining tannin, 262
- **Mercury**, observations of its transit over the disk of the sun, 214
- **Metals**, experiments to prove affinity among them, 311
- **Mirrors**, on the causes which prevent their proper action, 214, 217
- **Moulds**, on the effects produced in metals by different ones, 87, 118
- **Mudge, Major William.** An account of the measurement of an arc of the meridian, extending from Dunnose, in the Isle of Wight, latitude $50^\circ 37' 8''$, to Clifton, in Yorkshire, latitude $53^\circ 27' 31''$, in course of the operations carried on for the trigonometrical survey of England, in the years 1800, 1801, and 1802, 383
- **Myrobalans**, on the infusions of them, 267

**N**

- **Nickel**, its effects on gold, 61

**O**

- **Oak**, on the infusions of its bark, 260
- —— on its internal organisation, 282
- **Oxide, nitrous**, on its absorption by water, 36, 275
- —— gaseous of carbon, on its absorption by water, 37, 276

**P**

- **Palladium**, enquiries concerning the nature of a metallic substance so called, 290
- **Platina**, its effects on gold, 82
- —— on alloying it with mercury, 298
- —— experiments on, 314
- **Potatoes**, account of an experiment on, 288
- **Presents** received by the Royal Society, from November 1802 to June 1803, 509
- **Pressure**, on its influence in promoting the absorption of gases, 39

**R**

- **Refraction, horizontal**, observations on, 1
- **Remedy for the Master of the Mint**, on the regulation so called, 115
- **Rolling**, its effects on the specific gravity of gold, 127
| Topic                                                                 | Page |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------|------|
| Sap in Trees, on its descent                                          | 277  |
| Serpentis &c., on its motion                                           | 380  |
| Silver, its effects on gold                                            | 91, 93 |
| —— account of some experiments upon it                                 | 184  |
| Smithson, James, Esq. A chemical analysis of some calamines            | 12   |
| Stars, on the changes in the relative situation of double ones        | 339  |
| —— remarks on their apparent diameters                                 | 345  |
| —— observations at Dunnose, to determine the zenith distance of several | 445  |
| —— observations at Clifton, to determine the zenith distance of several | 452  |
| —— observations at Arbury Hill, to determine the zenith distance of several | 459  |
| —— observations at the Royal Observatory, to determine the zenith distance of several | 464  |
| Stones, account of some, said to have fallen on the earth              | 200  |
| Sumach, on the infusions of it                                          | 267  |
| Survey, trigonometrical, account of the measurement of an arc of the meridian, in course of it | 383  |
| —— description of a zenith sector used in it                           | 386  |
| —— particulars relating to the operations of the year 1802              | 410  |
| —— particulars relating to the measurement of a new base line, on Misterton Carr | 418  |
| Angles of the great triangles observed in the years 1800 and 1801      | 420  |
| reduction of the base to the temperature of 62°                        | 424  |
| recent comparison of the standard and working chains                   | 426  |
| calculation of a series of triangles, extending from Dunnose to Clifton | 427  |
| calculation of the meridional distance between Dunnose and Clifton     | 434  |
| bearings of certain sides from the parallels to the meridian of Dunnose | 434  |
| observed angles between the pole star and the staff at Gringley on the Hill | 436  |
| distance between the parallels of latitude of Greenwich and Dunnose    | 439  |
INDEX.

Survey, trigonometrical, observations at Dunnose, to determine the zenith distance of several stars, 445
observations at Clifton, to determine the zenith distance of several stars, 452
observations at Arbury Hill, to determine the zenith distance of several stars, 459
observations at the Royal Observatory, to determine the zenith distance of several stars, 464
reduction of the observations, to the 1st of January, 1802, 470
amplitudes of the celestial arcs comprehended by different stations, 482
difference between the parallels of latitude of Dunnose and Greenwich, 483
zenith distances of γ Draconis, at Blenheim, reduced to the beginning of the year 1794, 486
lengths of the degrees on the meridian, in the middle points of the several arcs, 487
bearings of various places and objects, from the parallels to the meridian of Greenwich, 494
latitudes and longitudes of various places and objects, referred to the meridian of Greenwich, 505

T

Tannin, remarks on a method proposed for obtaining it, 262
Tanning, on the operation of astringent vegetables in, 233
Teas, on the infusions of them, 268
Telescopes, on the causes of their acting differently at different times, 217
Terra japonica, experiments and observations on, 252
Tin, its effects on gold, 72, 93
its effects on silver, 73
Tongue, observations on its structure, 205
effects produced by its being bitten, 206
case of fungous excrescence on it, 207
case of tumour in it, 209
Trees, on the descent of the sap in them, 277

V

Vegetables, astringent, experiments and observations on, 233
Virginis γ, on its motion, 381
INDEX.

W

Wear of gold, experiments and observations on, - 43, 138
Whidbey, Mr. Joseph. An account of the sinking of the Dutch frigate Ambuscade, of 32 guns, near the Great Nore; with the mode used in recovering her - - - 321
Willow, Leicester, on the infusions of its bark, - - - 260
common, on the infusions of its bark, - - - 266
Wollaston, William Hyde, M.D. The Bakerian lecture. Observations on the quantity of horizontal refraction; with a method of measuring the dip at sea, - - - 1

Z

Zenith sector, description of one, - - - 386
See Survey.
Zinc, its effects on gold, - - - 57, 93