# Mr Sam. Brown His Seventh Book of East India Plants, with an Account of Their Names, Vertues, Description, etc. By James Petiver, Apothecary, and Fellow of the Royal Society. These Plants Were Gathered between the 15th and 20th of June, A. D. 1696. in the Ways between Fort St George and Trippetee, which is about 70 Miles off

**Author(s):** Sam. Brown, James Petiver  
**Year:** 1702  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions (1683-1775)  
**Volume:** 23  
**Pages:** 17 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-102879  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/102879>  

---

II. Mr Sam. Brown his seventh Book of East India Plants, with an Account of their Names, Vertues, Description, &c. By James Petiver, Apothecary, and Fellow of the Royal Society. These Plants were gathered between the 15th and 20th of June, A.D. 1696. in the ways between Fort St George and Trippetee, which is about 70 miles off.

249. Cora calunga Malab.

Trasi Orientale radice Olivari. an. Cyperus rotundus Orientalis major C.B. 13. 1. Theatr. 208. c. 12. 1. H.Ox. Sect. 8. pag. 236. 2. Tab. xi. Ser. 1. Fig. 2. This Plant is said to be in Ravolphi Collection: Dr Piukener also in his Almageft. p. 127. 8. pretends to have it. The Roots of this next the Leaves are fibrous, to which lower adhere others as it were Neck laced and Strung, which are oblong like those of Drop-wort. The Leaves are long and narrow, its Panicles are Greenish mixt with Red, these are frequently proliferous, yet seldom more than 4 or 5 Cocks-foot-like spikes, at the end of each slender pedicle.

I distinguish all those Cyperuses by the name of Trasi as have compris squamosè panicles, like the Gramen Filiceum, Amorettes or Gr. Amoris, whose lesser spikes grow very like some of our Dadylons. This is Cyperus-grafs, the Natives give the Decoction of the Root in Fevers, Jaundice and Obstructions of the Liver here are many Species of it, S.B.

250. Comachee pillee Malab.

Squinanth. or Camels Hay Angl. Juncus odoratus Lat. Σκοῖνος Grec. Schinanthum Officinis, Belgis & Italìs. Camdischheu Germ. Pasteure de Chameau Gall. Adhar & Adhir Arab. Sachbar Arabiae incolis. Giunco Odorato & Squinantho Ital. Paya de la Mequa five Paya de Chamellios Hisp. Patea de Mecka & Paltus Camelorum vugo.
Schænanthus odoratus Officinarum nobis. Schænanthe Pomel. lib. c. p. 173. cap. 1. Fig.

Schænanthos Juncus odoratus I. B. v. 2. l. 18. p. 515. c. 223. Fig. Cabr. 196. Fig. 1.

Schænanthum Ger. 39. Fig.

Schænus Cord. in Diosc. p. 4. c. 16. Schænus seu Schænuantus Cord. Hist. 199. c. 54. Fig. mala 200.

Schænanthus & Juncus odoratus Offic. Dale 374-3.

Schænanthus Roy H. Pl. 1310. c. 4.

Giunco odorato Durant. 212. Fig. 1.

Gramen Dattylon Maderaspatense, cum pluribus spicarum paribus ad summum caulis velut in verticellas positis Pluk. Tab. 119. Fig. 2. Alm. Bot. 175. 6. Gramen ad Junceum accedens aromaticum majus Syriacum H. Ox. Sect. 8. p. 229. Tab. 9. Fig. 25. Gramen Dattylon aromaticum, multiplici panicula, spicis brevibus tomento candidatisbus ex eodem pediculo binis Pluk. Tab. 190. Fig. 1. Alm. Bot. 175. 5.

Juncus odoratus C.B. in Matth. 56. Fig. Clus. Exot. 203. c. 34. Fig. Fragos. 60. c. 28. Garz. 137. c. 34. Juncus odoratus tenuior Park. 144. Fig. Juncus odoratus fove aromaticus C. B. 11. 1. Juncus Odoratus fove Aromaticus qui Squinanthum Officinum quasi xovu

Junci flos C.B. Phyt. 31. 12. Juncus odoratus fove Schænanthos Ad. 42. Juncus rotundus aromaticus C.B. Theat. 163. Fig.

I take the Codipulu of the Hort. Malab. Vol. 12. Tab. 57. p. 107. to be a Species of this, if not the same, the Figure pretty well agreeing with it, particularly the separate Squamae and Flowers, which are express towards the bottom of the Table on the left hand, and farther to confirm it in the Description, there is notice taken, that its Leaves are of an Aromatick scent.

Dr Plukenet has needlessly Figured this Plant twice over, since his first Figure (which was from a Specimen I gave him) is much truer than the last, viz. Tab. 119. Fig. 2. & Tab 190. Fig. 1.

This is Schænanth, which the Natives here have not in great Esteem, sometimes in the Moors Camps, the Horses, Camels and Oxen, which carry burdens eat nothing else, it's generally 2 or 3 foot high, here about, but near Color in rich Soyl, I have seen it 8 foot high, and thick as a Quill or small Reed: It's sometimes by the Natives put into their Decoctions for Fevers, and is good for Coughs and Thrush in Children, and with us is deservedly of more esteem. S. &
251. Vettever Malab.

Gramen Madraspatanum majus, cujus locustae spinulis armatae sunt. Mus. Petiver. 559.

These Roots are very long, fibrous and whitish, of a fragrant smell whilst fresh, the Leaves are long, stiff and flag-like, but narrow; its Panicle is Reed-like but not downy, composed of many slender Spikes, each composed of small rough, or rather serrated squamae.

The Natives use a Decoction of the Root for Fevers, Rheumatisms, Janne, &c. S. B.

251. a. Vasna pilé Malab.

Gramen Citratum fragantissimum e Madraspatan. Mus. Petiver. 586.

Dr Plukenet makes this a Cyperus grass, but for what reason I know not, having as yet seen nothing but its Leaves.

This is a most delicate sort of Fragrant Grass, which being rubbed, smells like Baume and Lime or Limon-peel together. The Portuguese Women fume their Children with it, and give the Decoction of it with other things for Fevers, and to strengthen weak Stomachs; but the Natives use it not, which together, with its growing in Gardens on the Sea Coast, and not up the Country, as I can yet observe, makes me think the Portuguese brought this from other parts and planted it here; certainly so excellent a Plant of such Fragrant and Aromatic taste must have many Vertues. I use it in many cases, and generally with success. While I was writing this, in came a Person, who says, that about 30 years ago, viz. about 1666. one Antonia Palia brought 3 Pots of this Grass from Batavia to Paliaut, one of which he sent to a Garden here at Madras.

252. Neer chenden nelle Malab. Rice Anglis Arz seu Arzi Arab. Reys Fl. Ris Gall. Reifz Germ. opula Grac. Atroz seu Arroz Hisp. Riso Ital. Oryza Lat. Oryza vulgaris aristata nob.

Oryza Ad. 12. Aug. 98. C B. in Matth. 326. c. 88. Fig. C B. Phyt. 52. C B. Theatr. 479. c. 29. Fig. I B. V. 2. l. 18. p. 451. c. 48. Fig. I B. prodr. 50. p. 35. Bod. 362. Brunf. Tom. 2. app. p. 15. Cam. Hort. 112. pl. 6. Chabr. 174. Fig. 4. Cord. in Diosc. 42. c. 117. Diosc. Ind. 37. Phil. 35. Dod. Pempt. 509. c. 28. Fig. Ger. 72. c. 52. Fig. Ger. emac. 79. Fig. Cat. Pl. Jam. 24. Lacun. 185. Lob. Icon. 38. Lob. 23. Fig. 3. Lonic. in Diosc. 34. l. 2. c. 85. Lugd. 407. l. 4. c. 16. Fig. Matth. 254. l. 2. 88. Fig. Munt. 4 to 551. c. 346. Munt. Hilt. & Phyt. curios. 797. c. 366. H. Oxon. Sect. 8. p. 201. c. 15. 1. Tab. 7. Ser. 3. Fig. 1. Park. 1136. c. 22. Fig. Ray H. Pl. 1246. c. 6. Ryff
in Diefc. 232. pro 132. l. 2. c. 87. Tabern. 676. Common bearded Rice.

253. Chenduppee Corea. Malab.

Cyperus Madraspatanus Allij capitulo. an. Pee Mottenga Malab. i.e. Mottenga Sylvestris. Badera musta Bram. H. Mal V. 12. Tab. 53. p. 99. an. Cyperus fibratus, spicis subrotundis magnis singularibus foliis fessilibus H. Oxon. Sect. 8. p. 238. 28.

This is distinguish from others, particularly from No 273. following, in having but one head and its squama large and turgid, the Leaves about it very long, narrow and seldom fewer than 4 or 5.

254. Arsee pillee Malab.

Panicum Madraffatanum minus spica denifore multiplici. an Gramen Panicenum Curaffavicum, paniculis in spica longa dispositis, P. B. pr. 337. This comes next to Dr Plukenets Gramen Panicenum multiplici spica Madraffatanum Phyt. Tab. 191. Fig. 1. but that the Spikes of this are thicker and stand closer together.

255. Aune Coodee Malab.

Cyperus Madraspatanus maximus, spicis tenuibus, glumis semini Santonici similis.

Each Panicle stands on longer or shorter footstalks, some more than 6 inches from the basis, others without any, these are composed of 6 or 8 spikes, surrounded with oblong squamose heads resembling Wormseed, by which it may be easily known from all others, the longest of these Spikes rarely exceeds 3 inches. From the basis of the Panicle extend several Flag like leaves of different growth, viz. some more than an inch broad and 2 foot long.

256. Palea muta coree Malab.

Randalia Madraffatana Graminis folio globulifer Mus. Petiver. 796. Pluk. Tab. 221. Fig. 7. Alm. Bot. 336. pl. 9.

This is neither a Scabious nor Thrift, but a peculiar Plant with a small white globular head and Grassly leaves.

257. Vana malle coddee Malab.

Cyperus Madraspatanus minimus Xanthoides Mus. Petiver. 598. an Scirpus omnium minimus Indicus, capitulis villosis Inflit. Rei Herb. 528. pl. ult.? This is a very elegant, small prolific Grass, the Roots shooting from one to another, 'tis full of small Bur-like heads, generally one on a stalk, sometimes two, and very rarely 3, it hath a short beard from the Head and a longer above, viz. ½ an inch or thereabout.

258. Mau.
258. Mautangee pilloo Malab.

Alopecuros Malabarica folijs undulatis spica prætenue. Gramen Pluk. Tab. geniculatum brevifolium crispo, spica purpuro sericea Maderaspatanum Pluk. Tab. 119. Fig. 1. Alm. Bot. 177. pl. 4. Alopecuros Madraspatana, folio brevi crispo, spica purpuro sericea Hift. Oxon. H. Ox. S. 8. p. 191. 7. & Alopecuros Indica spica longiore nigricante p. 191. 7. H. Ox. S. 8. p. 191. 5. Tsjeria Kuren pullu Malab, Tana Bram. Hort. Malab. Vol. 12. Tab. 62. p. 117.

This is easily distinguished from all others by its curl'd Leaves, and long slender bearded spike.

259. Narree pilloo Malab.

Gramen Panicum spica simplici levi Ray Hift. Plant. 1261. Its Ray smooth, yellowish fiken Arista or Beard, distinguishes it from the 1261. felt with single Spikes of this kind.

260. Naun ducal pillu Malab.

Panicum Madraspat. perelegans feminibus perlatis Mus. Petiver Mus. Petive. 560. This rare Grass hath a fibrous Root and very hairy Leaves; it bears its Spikes from near the bottom to the top of its Branches, each are composed of small round Poppy-like Seed, one above another, yet somewhat alternately, in some measure resembling the Pods of Ornithopodium or Birds foot.

261. Tauta Correa Malab.

Juncus Madraspatanus minor. an Gramen Juncum f. Juncus fo-liaceus humilis caule rotundo Maderaspatensis Pluk. Tab. 192. Fig. 6. 6. & H. Ox. S. 8. p. 232. 19.

Some of these are a Span and ½ high, others but 3 inches from the Root which is fibrose; its Tufts are composed of several oblong square thick Heads, these have no Leaves from its Tufts as No 282. The Seed is very small and black.

262. Tune adde pillo Malab.

Gramen Madraspat. hirsutum glomerulis echinatis. an Gramen Pluk. Tab. hirsutum Indicum glomeratis capitulis Lagopi æmulis, glumaesqua- mulis plurimis purpurascensibus arista unica donatis compactili Pluk. Tab. 190. Fig. 7. H. Ox. S. 8. p. 193. 26. & p. 224. 3. This is distinguished from all others by its hairy Leaves and Heads some what like Bur Reed, but much less, or rather some of the knotted Trefoil, and from S. B. 4. 176. that being larger, and the Squama of its heads softer and closer, resembling those of the Juncus capitulis Equiseti, C. B.

263. Kai.
263. Kairupum bille Malab.

Dactylon Madraspat. minus Arundinaceum folijs brevioribus teneris. This differs from S.B. 292. in having its Leaves shorter, broader and thinner.

264. Poo pillee Malab.

Under this Malabar Name is sent 2 varieties of Cocksfoot Grasses, viz. 1. Gramen Dactylon Madraspatanum spicis villosis flavescensibus speciosis Mus. Petiver. 61. The other Gramen Dactylon Madraspat. spicis pilosis Mus. Petiver. 60. an. Kouda pullu Malab.

Tab. 51. p. 95. Tana Bram. H. Mal. Vol. 12. Tab. 51. p. 95. ? an. Gram. Dactylum Indicum spicis villosis subrufescentibus H. Ox. f. 8. p. 185. pl. 15. Tab. 3. fer. 2. Fig. 15. ? an Gr. Dactylum elatius spicis plurimis tomentosis Cat. Pl. Jam. 33. an Graminis I species Marogr. p. 1. ? This differs from the first in having brownish spikes and shorter awns.

265. Shanee Coree Malab.

Cyperus Filicinus medius, panicula comosa e Madraspatan Mus. Petiver 593. an Gram. Juncum minus Indicum spiculis plurimis parvis in capitulum digestis H. Ox. f. 8. p. 227. 8. ? an Mulen pullu H. Mal. v. 12. Tab. 54. p. 101. ?

These Panicles grow in Tufts, never exceeding an inch from the Base, which is guarded with unequal Leaves, some above 5, others not one inch long: Its Root thready, and as it were hoary. It grows from ½ a Span to near 2 Foot high.

266. Chendu Correa Malab.

Juncus coniferus Madraspat. major.

an Gramen Cyperoides Madraspat. caule compresso, sparfa panicula Junci Pluk. Tab. 192. Fig. 5. ? This differs from No 271 and 192. Fig. 5.

S. B. 7. 300. 300. in being much larger, taller and stalk flattish.

267. Peacaramboo pu Malab.

Arundo Madraspat. plumosa flavescens.

This differs from the next in having much broader Leaves, and its Panicles less downy, and very full of small Seed, with brown yellowish tips.

268. Naunel pu Malab.

Arundo Madraspat. panicula sericea albisima.

an Arundo Indica cava H. Ox. f. 8. p. 219. 8. an Kerpa Malab.

Bala Bram. H. Mal. v. 12. Tab. 46. p. 85. ?

Its Leaves are narrow, long and apt to convolute, or closeround the Panicle downy and very white, each single spike much resembling those which lie in the Codded Willow Herb.

269. Maudu
269. Maudu Corea Malab.

Trafi Madraspat. panicula speciosa rufescente.

Cyperus longus Madraspat. panicula rufescente speciosissima Mus. Petiver. 589.

This differs from 249, in having more elegant Panicles, thicker set and of a rusty colour, each squamose head resembles those of the common Amourettes, but are lesser.

270. Calla pillee Malab.

Schænanthus major Madraspat. glumis Roseis Mus. Petiver. 574.

This is easily known from the other Schænanths in having hollow Oat-like husks, 8 or 10 together disposed into a Rose fashioned tuft, each terminating pointed with a short hair like arista or beard.

271. Coddane codee Malab.

Juncus coniferus minor Madraspatanus capitulis rotundioribus.

Juncus Orientalis panicula speciosa e Madraspatan Pluk. Tab. Fig. 3. H. Ox. 95. Fig. 3. Cyperus minor Madraspatensis, panicula sparsa e loculis rotundis composita H. Ox. f. 8. p. 238. 29. an. Gram. Luzon. 1. Ca. mel. Mβ. in Delineat. ?

272. Pauni pil'e Malab.

Amourettes Madraspat. cristata minor, spica breviore viscosa.

What is peculiar in this Love-grass is its having just under each spike, its stalk clammy, as in the Muscipula Lobelij or Lobells Catch Fly.

273. Mucutang Corea Malab.

Cyperus Jamaicensis fere tricephalus.

Gramen Cyperoides minus spica compaeta subrotunda viridi, radice odorata Cat. Pl. Jam. 36. pl. 7. Juncellus Madraspat. capitulis compaetioribus, acumine bifido longiori Pluk. Tab. 197. Fig. 7. H. Ox. f. 8. p. 232. 10. an Cyperus rotundus Indicus capitulis subrotundis conglemeratis H. Ox. f. 8. p. 236. 7. an Malobotones Luzonenstbus Camelli Mβ & delineat. an Mottenga Malab. Musta Bram. p. 236. 7. H. Mal. v. 12. Tab. 52. p. 97.

The Heads are small, round, and seldom more than 3, the middlemost is biggest, the rest set round it; these often when ripe rub off, and the stalk in the middle only remaining (to which the Seed stuck) it very much resembles a Mouse-tail: The Leaves about the Head are generally 3, and sometimes 4, but are much broader, shorter and stiffer than No 253. It Flourishes in September. Dr Sloan, who hath found this same Cyperus in Jamaica, observes the Roots to be fragrant, tho thready as the Hort. Malab. also does of the Mottenga. I have samples of this near 2 Spans long.

274. Nees.
274. Neer Naunel pu Malab.
Gramen pratense Madraspat. panicula longissima.
The Glume or Husk of this Grass is mighty small, the Spike or Panicle long, but not much spread.

275. Code mutta ge pille Malab.
Dactylon Madraspatan. erectum fere tetrasticon.
Gr. Ischemen Malabar. speciosius longioribus & mucronatis folijs Pluk. Tab. 300. Fig. 8. it may also be the same which Dr Plukenet calls Gram. Dactylon Orientale stellatum spica elegantiori e Madraspatan. Alm. Bot. 175. pl. 2.

This grows upright from a fibrose Root, hath very long Leaves, and generally but 4 spikes together, which distinguishes it from another I have received from thence, viz. Dactylon Madraspatanum procumbens spicis fere quinquisidis Of all the Grasses yet Figured the Gramen Stellatum Ægyptium Veslingij p. 52. seems the nearest to resemble this last Grass, because some of these Spikes are shorter than others, and that it Roots at several joints, which Veslingius complains his Figure does not express; it rises about a foot high, which also agrees with the description.

276. Coondu manne poondoo Malab.
Here are 2 Varieties of this Plant, viz. Perexil Champaccensis humilis polycephalus albus capillaceo folio Mus. Petiver 446. & Perexil Champaccensis capitulis carneis capillaceo folio Mus. Petiver 447. Besides its colour, this last grows longer than the other.

277. Nelle matche pille Malab.
Gramen Madraspat. pratensis facie, glumis minimis, an Gram. Madraspat. panicula spicata longa speciosissima Pluk. Tab. 190. Fig. 4. H. Ox. f. 8. p. 204. 56. ?

278. Caudere pille pu Malab.
Amourettes Madraspatan. spica simplici Loliacea Mus. Petiver 579.

This elegant Grass is not ramosè, but bears its single Panicles (which very much in shape and magnitude resemble the Common Love Grass, viz. S. B. 7. 294.) in one spike alternately, and sometimes inclining to one side without footstalks.

279. Wootare pille pu Malab.
Gramen Dactylon Madraspatan. spicis aristatis singulis, binis, ternive Mus. Petiver 64.

This grows sometimes 2 foot high, its spikes uncertain, commonly 2 or 3, and sometimes single.
280. Cauducu pille Malab.

*Milium grano acuto basi geniculato.*

It grows in *Spikes*, the *Grains* pointed, and each stands as it were in a blackish ring or socket.

281. Pange pille Malab.

*Amourettes Madraspat.* panicula sparsa, locustis parvis. *an Pluk. Tab.*

Gramen *Amoris Indici Orientalis* panicula sparsa, glumarum petiolis huc illuc undatim reflexis *Pluk. Tab. 190 Fig. 3*. *H. Ox. f. 8*. p. 204. 55.

This comes next to S. B. 7. 293. where you will see how it differs.

282. Mier Coree Malab.

*Juncus Madraspat.* minimus stellatus.

This proceeds from a brown threddy *Root*, from whence grow thick tufts of *Grass*, rarely exceeding 3 inches; its heads are many, small, squamoso and conical, each guarded with a Beard or two, the longest of which almost equals in length the Rush or top one.

283. Ponne pille Malab.

*Ægylops Madraspat.* glumis pilosis aristas.

Gramen *Secalinum Indicum* spica gracili tomentosa aristas longioribus ad se invicem intortis. *Pluk. Tab. 191. Fig. 4*. *H. Ox. f. 8*. p. 190. 9. *Tab. 4. Ser. 3. Fig. ult.* These beards resemble the Seed of *Geranium* or *Cranes Bill*.

284. Mauddetauru pille Malab.

*Panicum Madraspat.* spica longissima non distata.

*Milium Madraspat.* spica simplici pretenu. *Muf. Petiver 563*. *Muf. Petiv.*

The *Spike* of this resembles that of common *Plantain*, but is much longer, viz. some a foot or more.

285. Tundange pille Malab.

Gramen *Madraspat.* e singulis geniculatis ramofum. *This may be of the Millet kind, but being an imperfect Specimen, I dare not affirm it.*

286. Pea pille Malab.

*Panicum Madraspat.* latifl. spica asperi facie latiore.

This resembles our *Rough Panick Grass*, which is sometimes found wild with us (but oftner in Gardens) but its *Leaves* are broader, as is its *Spike* and more loose, but less rough.

287. Souta Cora Malab.

*Juncus Malabar.* major, super capitulum tantum geniculatus, *Nobis*. *Juncus conglomeratus Madraspatensis* acumine geniculato *Pluk. Tab. 197*. *Pluk. Fig. 6*.
H. Ox. f. 8. p. Pluk. Tab. 197. Fig. 6. H. Ox. Sect. 8. p. 231. 9. Juncus Indicus major styli geniculatis H. Ox. f. 8. p. 231. 3. Tijelli Mal. Tana pocala Bram. H. M. Vol. 12. Tab. 71. p. 135.

What is most remarkable in this Bull rush is, its being joynted above the head only and not below.

288. Coop pu Corae Malab.

Juncus Madrasp. fere tricephalos, squamis tortilibus dentatis Mus. Petiver 599. This is a very elegant Rush, and its peculiarity is rarely to exceed 3 heads on one Rush, the Scales of which are twisted, and as it were serrated. Its commonly about a foot high.

289. Ponne varaga pille Malab.

Sesamum granulosum bicone minus Madraspatanum. Mus. Petiver 570. an Gramen Dactylon repens Indicum spica gemella H. Oxon. f. 8. p. 185. 10. an Gr. Dactylon bicone repens, folijs latiss brevibus Cat. Pl. Jam. p. 33. 8. an Tereta pullu Hort. Mal. v. 12. Tab. 44. p. 81.

290. Tear Corae Malab.

Cyperus Madraspat. maximus, panicula cristata contractiore. Mus. Petiver 591. Cyperus Orientalis major, paniculis turgidioribus densius stipatis H. Ox. f. 8. p. 236. 5. Each single Spike resembles that of the Lovegras, No 294 following. These are thick-set in oblong heads, which sometime spawn or divide at the bottom, they are commonly an inch long, and sometimes more, standing on footstalks of an unequal length, from ½ an inch or scarce any to 5 or 6.

291. Corki pillu Malab.

Donax Madraspat. vulgaris facie. an Arundo Indica farcta major H. Ox. f. 8. p. 220. 14. an. Nain Canna f. Canna sylvestris Mal. lab. Piscobo Bram. H. Mal. Vol. 12. Tab. 73. p. 139.

292. Colirarru pillu Malab.

Dactylon Arundinaceum minus. Gramen vulgare Dalech. Lugd. fig. 2. 421. Fig. 2. whose Figure it very well resembles. Gramen Dacty- lon folio Arundinaceo minus C B. 8. pl. 3. Theatr. 113. Fig. 2. H. Ox. f. 8. p. 184. Tab. 3. Fig. 4. Ser. 2. I take Dr Plukenets Gramen geniculatum folijs brevibus aculeos mentientibus Madraspatanum, to be nothing else than the creeping part of this Grass, having samples very like it, and this part is often sent without its spikes, as may be seen in the first Leaf of this Collection. This differs little from the Gramen legitimum Clus. Hist. l. 6. p. 217. Fig. and its smallness may proceed as the Botan. Monspel p. 112. says from its growing in dryer places.
293. Mulgaude pillu Malab.

Amourettes Madraffat. panicula minus sparfa; locustis perexigiiis.
This seems to grow Pyramidal, and not so expanded as No 281. the glumæ are also less and shorter.

294. Puli pilce Malab.

Amourettes vulgaris.
Heragrostis f. Gramen elegantissimis paniculis CB. Phyt. p. 9. pl. 36. C.B. Phyt. 9.
Gramen Amoris diëtum I B. Vol. 2. l. 18. p. 470. c. 98. epaygastos pl. 36.
Gr. Amourettes Cluf. Hisp. l. 6. 218. Fig. 1. Cluf. Hisp. 500. Fig. 1 B. V. 2. 470.
I B. prodr. 51. pl. 30.
Gr. Filiceum f. polyanthos Lugd. 428. Fig. 3.
Gr. paniculis elegantissimis, five majus C.B. 2. 5. Theatr. 25. Fig. 5.
Gr. panniculofum Lob. Obs. II. Fig. 1. Gr. Panniculatum Ger. Fig. 5. Ger. 8.
8. Fig. pannic. elegans Ger. em. pann. sativum Heragrostis Tab. Fig. Dod. p. Icon. 264.
Gr. pratense VI Dod. Pempt. 561. Fig. 4.
Phalaris prat. major f. Gr. Tremulum maximum Park. 1156. Park. 1156. Fig. 1.
Cluf. Hisp. p. 500. Fig. H. Oxon. sect. 8. p. 204. Tab. 6. ser. 2 Fig. 52. H. Pl. Paris 457. 5. Ray H. Pl. 1274. 5.
This elegant Grass is frequent about Paris and Montpelier: I have also had it from Surat in the East Indies, and Virginia in the West.

295. Cavaree Codee Malab.

Daëtylon Malabar. maximum esculentum.
Gramen Daëtylon Orientale majus Frumentaceum, semine Napi
Pluk. Tab. 91. Fig. 5. H. Ox. f. 8. p. 185. 13. & Gramen Daëtylon Pluk. Tab. 91.
Indicum, feminibus rotundis H. Ox. f. 8. p. 186. 20. Tsjetri pullu Fig. 5.
Malab. Nazano Brach. H. Mal. V. 12. Tab. 78. p. 149. Coracan p. 186. 13. & Knox Hisf. Ceyl. p. xi. The breadth and largeness of the Spikes distinguishes it from the rest of this kind.

296. Mile Corea Malab.

Cyperus Borneocus Limonij panicula.
This has several Panicles much expanded. each Spike is very slender and alternately set, as are its minute squamæ, which resemble (tho much less) the Limonium or Sea Lavander, before its Flowers come forth.

My worthy Friend, Mr Sylvanus Landon, first brought me this Plant from Borneo.
297. Shegapu Corea Malab.
Juncus Madraspat. capitatus minor.
Its Root long and fibrous, Leaves small and narrow, Heads somewhat like Trefoil, bearded with 2 or 3 short Leaves. This grows about 4 inches high.

298. Mash Corae Malab.
Cyperus Filicinus medius panicula sparsa e Madraspatan. Mus. Petiver 592.
The main difference between this and No 265. is its panicle, which is here ramoso or proliferoso; this is also generally a lower Grass.

299. Cumboo pillee Malab.
Gramen Daëylon Madraspatanum Graminis Manna facie. an Gram. Daëylon esculentum, CB. 8. 8.
That accurate Botanist John Baubine, I observe takes this last, and the Gramen Daëylon folio latiore CB. 8. pl. 4. to be the same, and only differ in Culture, which I am inclined to believe, the last being Spontaneous about Gardens, the other Cultivated in Germany: Authors I find give 2 differing Figures of the Gramen Manna seu Daëylon Escolentum, viz. one with long smooth Leaves, and few or no joints; the other with shorter Leaves, more joints and hairy vagini or sheaths, the first of which I take this to be a variety, if not the same.

300. Arna Corea Malab.
Juncus coniferus Madraspat. minor capitulis oblongis. Gramen Cyperoides Madraspat. Juncelli Gesneri capitulis sparsis Pluk. Tab. 119. Fig. 3. Cyperus minor Madraspat. Juncelli Gesneri capitulis H. Ox. f. 8. p. 238. pl. 30. an. Gram. Luzon. 2. Camel Mß cum delineatione.
This and No 271. are nicely different, if not the same, this seems to have longer heads, the other rounder.

301. Coode pilie poo Malab.
Milium Madraspat. glabrum, paniculis ac graris rarioribus. Grows from one to 3 Spans high, its Spikes rarely branched, the Seed one just above the other, and generally on one side the Spike.

302. Cuëtrenile pillu Malab.
Amorettes Madraspat. cristata majus, spica longiorc viscosa. This differs from No 272. in being taller and its spikes much longer and larger.

303. Col.
303. Colletta pille Malab.

Phænix Madraspat. spicis plurimis e singulis geniculis. Gramen Loliaceum majus spicis in verticillarum multiplicatis Pluk Tab. 191. Fig. 6. Alm. Bot. 173. pl. 16. H. Ox. f. 8. p. 182. 5.

This is a tall reedy Grass, but stalk pithy, its ramoso, and from every joint comes several long Spikes, exactly resembling those of our Dwarf sea Darnel Grass, in Mr Rays Synops. p. 182. 3. ed. 2. Ray Syn. 182. pl. 3.—ed. 2. 250.

304. Vauda maule code Malab.

Juncus Madraspat. capitatus major.

This is larger than No 297, otherwise very like it.

305. Velli pille Malab.

Dactylon Arundinaceum vulgatissimum-majus.

Gramen Cluf. Hisp. 497. fig. Ang. Cæsalp.

Gram. legitimum Cluf. Hisp. 1. 6. p. 217. Fig.

Gr. Canarium alterum Ischemi paniculosis, maximo Gramini mari- no Arundinaceo congener Lob. Obs. 12. Fig. 1. Gr. Canarium If. chami paniculosis Park. 1179. Fig. 5. Gr. Dactylon secundum folio Arundinaceo C B. Phyt. 19. pl. 88. Gr. Dactyl. fol. Arundina- ceo majus (aculeatum forte Plinij C B. 7. 2.) C B. Theatr. 112. Phyt. 19. pl. Fig. opt.

Clusius has given a very good Figure of this which Parkinson and Lobel have copied, Casp. Bauhine, pag. 7. makes this his 2d Dacty- lon & p. 8. supposes it also his 3d, which differs only in being smaller, as I have hinted before under No 292. The greater I have received from the Coasts of Spain and Portugal, and the less from the Islands of Chio and Coos.

Lobel in his Observations p. 12. takes notice, that on the Coasts of Narbone, its Roots are so like the common Reed, that you would say they were the same, the like I have observed of its stalks, Casp. Bauhine might therefore more properly have termed this Grass rather Radice (then folio) Arundinaceo.

306. Neer chouta corae Malab.

Juncus aqu. minor Madraspat. super capitulum geniculatus. This seems to differ from Souta cora No 287, in being much less, not exceeding a foot. The Malabar word Neer being added to this, denotes it to grow in watry places. See S. B. Vol. 2. pl. 91

307. Narre coock pille Malab.

Gramen Filiceum Madraspat. Ipica tenuiore.

This is next of kin to S. B. 5. 218. but its Leaves are Graffy and less (the others are large and rough on the Edges like a Cyper-
the Spikes of this much slenderer, and with fewer and smaller divisions.

S. B. 7. 308. 308. Ca verae pille Malab.
Mus. Petiv. Dadylon Madraspat. Gr. Manne facie, feminibus Cilijinftar pilosis Mus. Petiver 573.

This differs from S. B. 7. 299. in having its Spikes or Fingers shorter, and rarely more than 4 or 5, whereas No 299, has them much longer (as also its Leaves) and commonly 5 at least, but what distinguishes this most particularly, is its hairy fring'd Seed, which is very remarkable, standing out like those on our Eye-lids, but much shorter.

I take this Ma'abar word pille to signify Grass, and that it may be a corruption of Pullu, which in the latter end of the 12th Volume of the Hort Malab. is added to above a dozen Plants, and they all of this kind.

S. B. 7. 309. 309. Torapo Malab.
Bromos Madraspat. spicis praelongis, minus sparsis.
This resembles Mr Bobarts Haver Grass or Festuca Avenacea stellatis spicis erectis Ray Synopf. 237. & ed. 2. p. 261. 3. Pluk. Tab. 299. Fig. 2. but that these Spikes are much longer and slenderer.

S. B. 7. 310. 310. Neer pash Malab.
This may be a sort of Potamogiton or Pond weed (Neer signifying Water, as I have before hinted, viz. No 91. & No. 306.) but it being an imperfect specimen, I dare not be positive.

S. B. 7. 311. 311. Peele Chellendenaicum Malab.
Milium Madraspat. glabrum, panicula, ramosissima grano minore.
This seems that sort, which when divested of its grain, is sent into Europe in Brushes for Cloaths.

S. B. 7. 312. 312. Parpaticum Malab.
Spergula Rosea multicaulis polyanthose Madraspatan, S.B. 5. 226.
sou A& Phil. No 276. p. 1020.

313. Nelle monnee Malab.

Arundo Litbospermos Ger. emac.
Lachryma vulgo Casalt.
Lachryma Jobi Ger. 82. c. 59. Fig. Park. 430. c. 7 Fig.
Lachryma Jobi I B. prodr. 50. pl. 34. Clus. Hisp. 501. Fig. id. Hist. p. 449. c. 46. l. 6. p. 216. Fig. Dod. Pempt. 506. c. 24. Fig. id Trag. Hist. 71. Fig.
H Mal. V. 12. f. Ox. f. 8. p. 249. c. 29. Tab. 13. ser. 2.
Tab. 70. p. Lachrima Jobi vel Marie Chabr. 180. Fig. 1. 2. L. J. multisive
Milium Arundinaceum I. B. v. 2 l. 18. p. 449. c. 46. Fig.
Lachryma Jodocy alijs Jobi Gesn. H. Germ. app. 293.
Lagrine di Giobbe Durant 240 Fig.
Lithospermum Arundinaceum Dalech. Lugd. 1178. Fig. L. Arundan Diosc. & Plini C.B. 258. 1. Phyt. 499. 5. Lithosp. majus Trag. 916. c. 140. Lith. Plinianum, sive majus, Lachryma Job. f. Christi Ad. 16. Fig.

Milium Arundinaceum, semine Lithospermi facie maximo durissimo Hort. Lugd.
Catri conda Malab. Len Camani Bram. Hort. Malab. Vol. 12. Tab. 70. p. 133. Ray H. Pl. 1252. c. 11. an. Coix Theophrast. l. 1. c. 16.

Lagrima de Moyse Hisp., Larmes de notre Dame Narbon. Marien trachen Germ. Jobs teares Angl.

Its said to grow wild in the Islands of Rhodes and Candy, I have received it several times from the East Indies, but with us its only nurst in Gardens.

314. Tenne Malab.

Panicum Malab. esculentum, spica aristata e plurimis capitulis dense stipata.

Panicum Indicum majus, feminibus, albicantibus H. Ox. f. 8. p. H. Ox. f. 8. 188. 3.

Tenna Malab. Varai Bram. H. Mal. V. 12. Tab. 79. p. 151.

The Spike of this is ½ a foot long, composed of several smaller Spikes or oblong Heads, set so close, that the whole Spike hardly seems divided, especially whilst young; these are full of small arista, each Seed is small and whitish, and has a large sulca or furrow on one side as in Wheat and Barley. With this Seed Mr Brown says they feed their Birds and the Hort. Malab. also affirms they are edible.

315. Ravana Mese Malab.

Spartum Avenaceum pumile-Malabaricum.

Gramen Sparteum Madraspat. majus crassioribus & brevioribus 12. p. 143. folijs H. Ox. f. 8. p. 217. 6. Ily mullu Hort Malab. V. 12. p. 143. Tab. 75. Tab. 75. where its Figure very well resembles this Specimen which grows about a Span high.

316. Tagata Corae Malab.

Juncus stellatus Madraspatanus capitulis conoidibus squamosis. H. Ox. f. 8.

Cyperus Madraspat. capite ex spicis plurimis in cacumine caulis glo-merato H. Ox. f. 8. p. 238. pl. 36. Gramen Cyperoides Madraspata Pluk. Tab. 300. Fig. 7. num capite ex spicis plurimis acuminatis in cacumine caulis glomerato Alm. Bot. Pluk. Tab. 300. Fig. 7. Alm. Bot. 178 pl. 5.
To these we add the following Shells, which the Reverend Dr George Lewis sent me very lately from Fort St George.

1. *Pecten Madraspatanus* inaequalis albus, nebulis dispersis. an *Pecten variegatus*, strijs circiter 18 majusculis donatus. *Lift. Hist. Conchyl. Lib. 3. Tab. 179. Fig. 16.* This is a white Schallop with brown Chestnut Clouds, is pretty round, being as broad as long, viz. 1 ½ inch, its Ears ¾ broad unequal, viz. one bigger than the other, its composed of about 18 Strix as Dr Lister's is.

2. *Mytilus striatus Madraspat. angustus.*
This Shell is sometimes near 2 inches long, the hing of which is 1 and ¼, its oblong, but rounder at the nose end, and more pointed at the other, it seems to be that which Dr Lister has figured without any Name, in his 3d Book Tab. 232. at No 66, weighs something less than a Dram.

Under the denomination of *Mytilus* I rank such Shells as have a long hing with many small furrows, and are somewhat Oval. These Dr Lister in his *Hist. Conchyl. Lib. 3. Sect. 2. cap. 1.* Figures under the Title of *Pectunculi polyleptoginglymi margine ex altera parte productiore.*

3. *Mytilus striatus Madraspat. latus.*
A Shell of 1 inch and ¾ long, 1 ¾ broad from the hing, which is 1 long, its very like the last but much wider, it weighs better than a Dram.

4. *Pectunculus Madraspatan. variegatus crassus, strijs lateraliibus.* an *Pectunculus ex rufo variegatus, strijs tenuibus Lift. H.C.I. 3. Tab. 310. Fig. 146.*
This is thick and round, its an inch and ¾ from the Hing to its opposite side, and 2 inches from end to end, its marbled with brown, the peculiarity of this Shell, is its striæ in the middle from the back to each side. This weighed 3β & 3ij, but they differ according to their bigness.

5. *Pectunculus Madraspatan. crassus, vulgaris facie, maculis croceis.* an *Pectunculus maculatus majoribus strijs conspicuus Lift. H.C. I. 3. Tab. 320. Fig. 146.* This has the face and magnitude of our Common Small edible Cockle, but much stronger, thicker and spotted with yellow. Some of these weigh above 5i.