# Experiments to Prove That Fluids Pass Directly from the Stomach to the Circulation of the Blood, and from Thence into the Cells of the Spleen, the Gall Bladder, and Urinary Bladder, without Going Through the Thoracic Duct

**Author(s):** Everard Home  
**Year:** 1811  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London  
**Volume:** 101  
**Pages:** 9 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-107338  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/107338>  

---

VIII. Experiments to prove that Fluids pass directly from the Stomach to the Circulation of the Blood, and from thence into the Cells of the Spleen, the Gall Bladder, and Urinary Bladder, without going through the Thoracic Duct. By Everard Home, Esq. F. R. S.

Read January 31, 1811.

Having on a former occasion laid before the Society some experiments, to prove that fluids pass directly from the cardiac portion of the stomach, so as to arrive at the circulation of blood without going through the thoracic duct, the only known channel by which liquids can arrive there; the present experiments are brought to confirm that opinion; but in stating them, I wish to correct an error I was led into, in believing that the spleen was the channel, by which they are conveyed.

At the time I made my former communications, I was conscious that the facts I had ascertained were only sufficient to open a new field of enquiry; but as I might never be able to make a further progress in an investigation, beset with so many difficulties, I thought it right to put them on record. Since that time I have lost no opportunity of devising new experiments to elucidate this subject; and the circumstance of Mr. Brodie, the assistant of my philosophical as well as professional labours, having tied the thoracic duct in some experiments which will come before the Society, suggested to me the idea, that if the thoracic duct was tied, and proper experi-
ments made, there could be no difficulty in ascertaining whether there was any other channel between the stomach and the circulation of the blood.

With this view I instituted the following experiment, which was made on the 29th of September 1810, by Mr. Brodie, assisted by Mr. William Brande and Mr. Gatcombe. I was unavoidably prevented from being present during the time of the experiment.

Experiment 1.

A ligature was passed round the thoracic duct of a rabbit, just before it enters at the junction between the left jugular and subclavian veins: an ounce of strong infusion of rhubarb was then injected into the stomach. In three quarters of an hour some urine was voided, in which rhubarb was distinctly detected, by the addition of potash. An hour and a quarter after the injection of the rhubarb the animal was killed: a dram and half of urine was found in the bladder highly tinged with rhubarb, and the usual alteration of colour took place on the addition of potash. The coats of the thoracic duct had given way opposite the middle dorsal vertebra, and nearly an ounce of chyle was found effused into the cavity of the thorax, beside a considerable quantity in the cellular membrane of the posterior mediastinum. Above the ruptured part the thoracic duct was entire, much distended with chyle; and on tracing it upwards, the termination of the duct in the vein was found to be completely secured by the ligature. The lacteal and lymphatic vessels had given way in several parts of the abdomen, and chyle and lymph were extravasated underneath the peritoneum.
In this and the following experiments the infusion of rhubarb was employed in preference to the prussiate of potash, in consequence of its having been found in those I formerly made, that one drop of tincture of rhubarb could be detected in half an ounce of serum, and nothing less than a quarter of a grain of prussiate of potash in the same quantity could be made to strike a blue colour when the test was added.

Experiment 2.

The experiment was repeated upon a dog. In this I was assisted by Mr. Brodie, Mr. William Brande, Mr. Clift, and Mr. Gatcombe. After the thoracic duct had been secured, two ounces of strong infusion of rhubarb were injected into the stomach, and in an hour the dog was killed. The urine in the bladder, on the addition of potash, became deeply tinged with rhubarb. The bile in the gall bladder, by a similar test, was found to contain rhubarb. The lacteal vessels in several parts of the mesentery had burst, and chyle was extravasated into the cellular membrane; the thoracic duct had given way in the lower part of the posterior mediastinum, and chyle was extravasated. Above the ruptured part the thoracic duct was much distended with chyle; it was readily traced to the ligature, by which it was completely secured.

These experiments appeared to establish the fact, that the thoracic duct was not the channel through which the infusion of rhubarb was conveyed to the circulation of the blood, and it now became easy to ascertain, whether it passed through the spleen, by extirpating that organ, and repeating the last experiment.

MDCCCXI.
On the 21st of October, 1810, the following experiment was made with the assistance of Mr. Brodie, Mr. Clift, Mr. Gatcombe, and Mr. Money.

Experiment 3.

The thoracic duct near its termination was secured in a dog, whose spleen had been removed four days before, and three ounces of infusion of rhubarb were injected into the stomach: in an hour and half the dog was killed, and the urine was found strongly impregnated with rhubarb; and on examination, the thoracic duct was found to be completely secured by the ligature. Several of the lacteals had burst, but the duct itself had not given way; it was greatly distended with chyle and lymph.

By this experiment it was completely ascertained, that the spleen is not the channel through which the infusion of rhubarb is conveyed into the circulation of the blood, as I had been led to believe, and therefore the rhubarb, in my former experiments detected in the spleen, must have been deposited there in the same manner as in the urine, and in the bile.

The detection of this error made me more anxious to avoid being misled respecting the thoracic duct; and therefore, although there was little probability that the infusion of rhubarb could have passed into the lymphatic vessels, which open into the blood vessels of the right side of the neck, I thought it right, before I proceeded further, to repeat the experiment, securing the termination of the thoracic duct on the left side, and the lymphatic trunk of the right side, where it empties itself into the angle between the jugular and subclavian vein. This was done on the 28th of October, 1810, with the assistance of the same persons as in the last experiment.
Experiment 4.

The thoracic duct of a dog was tied, as in the former experiment; in doing it the duct was wounded, and about a dram of chyle flowed out; the lymphatic trunk of the right side was then secured. After this, three ounces of infusion of rhubarb were injected into the stomach, and in an hour the dog was killed. The urine and the bile were found distinctly impregnated with rhubarb. On opening the thorax, some absorbent vessels, distended with lymph, were seen on the right side of the spine, entering an absorbent gland on the second dorsal vertebra, and the vasa efferentia from the gland were seen uniting with other absorbent vessels, and extending towards the right shoulder, where they formed a common trunk with the absorbents from the neck and axilla; this trunk was found included in the ligature. The thoracic duct was moderately distended with a mixture of chyle and lymph; in tracing it upwards, an opening was seen in it immediately below the ligature, through which the contents readily passed out when pressure was made on the duct: above this opening the duct was completely secured by the ligature. Nearly a dram of the fluid contained in the thoracic duct was collected and tested by potash, but there did not appear to be any impregnation of rhubarb.

Experiment 5.

The last experiment was repeated on another dog, on the 21st of January, 1811, with the assistance of Mr. Brodie, Mr. W. Brande, Mr. Clift, and Mr. Gatcombe. The dog was killed an hour after the thoracic duct and lymphatic trunk had been secured, and the infusion of rhubarb had been injected into the stomach.
In tying the right lymphatic trunk, a lymphatic vessel, from the thorax going to join it, was wounded, from which chyle flowed out in considerable quantity during the whole time of the experiment; a short time before the dog was killed some of it was collected, but on testing it with potash no rhubarb was detected in it.

The urine was found impregnated with rhubarb, as was also the bile from the gall bladder; but both in a less degree than in the last experiment. The lacteal vessels and mesenteric glands were much distended with chyle; and on cutting into the glands chyle flowed out in considerable quantity. Some of this was collected and tested with potash, but shewed no evidence of rhubarb being contained in it. The thoracic duct was much distended; it was traced to the ligature, and was found to be completely secured.

Lymphatic vessels from the right side of the posterior mediastinum, were seen extending towards the ligature that had been tied on that side; they were nearly empty; and the trunk formed by the junction of these with the lymphatic vessels from the right axilla, and from the right side of the neck, was seen distinctly included in the ligature.

While Mr. Brodie was tracing the thoracic duct, Mr. William Brande was making an infusion of the spleen, and shewed me a section of it, in which the cells were larger, and more distinct, than I had ever seen them in a dog. There was a slight tinge of rhubarb in the infusion from the spleen. A similar infusion was made of the liver; but the quantity of blood contained in it being much greater than in the spleen, the appearance was not sufficiently distinct to decide whether it contained rhubarb or not. These experiments appear com-
pletely to establish the fact, that the rhubarb did not pass through the thoracic duct, and therefore must have got into the circulation of the blood by some other channel. They likewise completely overturn the opinion I had adopted of the spleen being the medium by which the rhubarb had been conveyed, and show that the spleen answers some other purposes in the animal economy.

The rhubarb found in the spleen does not arrive there before it enters the circulation, it is therefore most probably afterwards deposited in the cells in the form of a secretion. That the rhubarb goes into the circulation is proved by my former experiments, in which it was detected in the splenic vein. The prussiate of potash is hardly to be discovered in the blood of a living animal, since the proportion which strikes a blue colour on the addition of solution of iron, is greater than the circulating fluids can be expected to contain at any one time, as it goes off by the secretions nearly as fast as it is received into the blood vessels. In a moderately sized ass more than two drams must be dissolved in the blood before its presence there can be detected.

That the fluid contained in the cells of the spleen is secreted there, is rendered highly probable, since it is most abundant while the digestive organs are employed, and scarcely at all met with when the animal has been sometime without food. The great objection to this opinion is, there being no excretory duct but the lymphatic vessels of the spleen; these however are both larger and more numerous than in any other organ; they are found in the ass to form one common trunk, which opens into a large gland on the side of the thoracic duct, just above the receptaculum chyli; and when the quick-
silver is made to pass through the branches of this gland, there is a trunk equally large on the opposite side, which makes an angle, and then terminates in the thoracic duct. This fact I ascertained at the Veterinary College, assisted by the Deputy Professor Mr. Sewell, and Mr. Clift. These lymphatic vessels are equally large as the excretory ducts of any other glands, and therefore sufficient to carry off the secretion formed in the cells of the spleen; and where a secretion is to be carried into the thoracic duct, it would be a deviation from the general plan of the animal economy, were any but lymphatic vessels employed for that purpose.

It is a strong circumstance in favour of the secretion being so conveyed, that in the last experiment, the lacteals and cells of the spleen were unusually turgid, being placed under similar circumstances, the thoracic duct being so full as not to receive their contents.

The purposes that are answered by such a secretion from the spleen into the thoracic duct cannot at present be ascertained.