# Back Matter

**Author(s):** Anonymous  
**Year:** 1854  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London  
**Volume:** 144  
**Pages:** 19 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-108507  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/108507>  

---

INDEX

TO THE

PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS

FOR THE YEAR 1854.

A.

Acid, nitrotoluyllic, products of decomposition of, 43.
Acids, osmose of, 225.
Air, physical properties of, expressed according to the thermo-dynamic scale, 353; table of specific heats of, 363.
Alkalies, osmose of, 225.
Atmosphere, effect of pressure of, on the mean level of the ocean, 285.

B.

Bakerian Lecture, 177.
Booth (Rev. J.). Researches on the Geometrical Properties of Elliptic Integrals, 53.

C.

Cayley (A.). An Introductory Memoir on Quantics, 245.
Crystals, musical tones in, produced by heat, 7.

D.

Donkin (W. F.). On a Class of Differential Equations, including those which occur in Dynamical Problems.—Part I., 71.

E.

Elliptic integrals, geometrical properties of, 53. Quadrature of the logarithmic ellipse and logarithmic hyperbola, 54. On the rectification of the lemniscates, 61. On the hyperbolic lemniscates, 65.
Embryo, body and head of, produced from definite portions of yelk, 240. Axis of, correspondent with primary yelk-cleft, 241.
INDEX.

Engines, Thermo-dynamic, theory of, 137.
Equations, differential, occurring in dynamical problems, 71; examples of, 96. On the equations of rotatory motion, 105.
Excrements, organic chemical constituents of, in Man and animals, 265; excretine, a constituent of, 267; effects of alimentation on, 268; margaric acid in, 272; colouring matter in, 273; excretoleic acid in, 275; of carnivorous animals, 276; of herbivorous animals, 279; of granivorous animals, 281; differences in, 282.
Excretine, a constituent of human faeces, 267; sulphur contained in, 267-270; probable formation, 268; not a constituent of animal faeces, 282.
Excretoleic acid, 275.

F.
Fluids in motion, thermal effects of, 321.

G.
Graham (Thomas). On Osmotic Force, 177.

H.
Hassall (A. H.). On the frequent occurrence of Indigo in Human Urine, and on its Chemical, Physiological, and Pathological Relations, 297.
Heat, geometrical representation of expansive action of, 115; isothermal curves, and curves of no transmission of, 116; mechanical equivalent of, 119-143; general equation of expansive action, 123; curves of free expansion, 130; relation between temperature and actual heat, 147.
Heat, mechanical action of, thermometric scale founded on, 350.
Hooker (J. D.). On the Functions and Structure of the Rostellum of Listera ovata, 259.

I.
Indigo, in urine, 297; its relation with haematin and urine-pigment, 305; an elimination of carbon from the system, 307.

J.
Joule (J. P.) and Thomson (W.). On the Thermal Effects of Fluids in Motion, 321; variations in cooling effect, 322; causes of fluctuation of temperature, 323; experiments in tubes plugged with cotton wool, 325; with plug of silk, 327; cooling effects on carbonic acid, 329; on hydrogen, 334; influence of temperature on cooling effect, 335; relation between the heat evolved and work spent in compressing a gas, 337; density of saturated steam, 344; evaluation of Carnot's function, 348; absolute thermometric scale founded on the mechanical action of heat, 350; physical properties of air according to the absolute thermo-dynamic scale, 353; table of specific heats of air, 363.

L.
Lemniscates, on the rectification of, 61.
Light, theory of vibrations of, 11; harmonic resonance of, 13; determinations of component and secondary waves of, 20; elucidation of optical laws, 33.
Listera ovata, functions and structure of the rostellum of, 259.
M.

MarceT (W.). An Account of the Organic Chemical Constituents or Immediate Principles of the Excrements of Man and Animals in the Healthy State, 265.

Metals, musical tones in, produced by heat, 4.

N.

Newport (G.). Researches on the Impregnation of the Ovum in the Amphibia; and on the Early Stages of Development of the Embryo, 239.

Nitrotoluylic acid, products of the decomposition of, 48; nitrotoluylamide, 44; action of reducing agents on, 46; tolyl-urea, 48; carbo-toluylic acid, 50.

Noad (H. M.). On some of the Products of the Decomposition of Nitrotoluylic Acid, 43.

O.

Osmometer, description of, 185.

Osmose, phenomena of, 178.

Osmotic force, definition of, 177; osmose, how produced, 178; not an effect of capillarity, 180; evidence of chemical activity, 183; electrical endosmose, 184; description of osmometer, 185; osmose in membrane and in earthenware compared, 187; effects with different acids, 191; tables of experiments with alcohol, 194; osmose of sugar, 195; of sulphate of magnesia, 199; of chloride of sodium, 201; of chlorides of barium and calcium, 204; of potassium and sodium, 205; of carbonate of potash, 206; of sulphates of potash and soda, 211; of oxalate of potash, &c., 213; of barium, strontium, &c., 215; of acetate of alumina, 217; of magnesian chlorides, 219; of nitrate of lead, 221; of various metals, 222; of nitrate of uranium, 223; solutions of mercury, 223; opposite results with acid and alkaline salts, 225; unosmotic salts, 226; osmose in living membrane, 227.

Ovum, impregnation of, in the Amphibia, 229; method of observation, 230; penetration of yolk by spermatozoa demonstrated, 232; appearances of the yolk after fecundation, 234; production of the body and head of the embryo, 240; primary cleft correspondent with axis of future embryo, 241; power of spermatozoon to influence direction of primary cleft, 242.

P.

Pollock (Sir F.). On certain Properties of square numbers and other quadratic forms, with a Table of odd numbers from 1 to 191, divided into 4, 3 or 2 square numbers, the algebraic sum of whose roots (positive or negative) may equal 1, by means of which Table all the odd numbers up to 9503 may be resolved into not exceeding 4 square numbers, 311.

Power (J.). Theory of the Reciprocal Action between the Solar Rays and the different Media by which they are reflected, refracted, or absorbed; in the course of which various optical laws are elucidated and explained, 11.

Q.

Quantics, definition of, 245; examples of, 247; the covariants of, 250.

R.

Rankine (W. J. M.). On the Geometrical Representation of the Expansive Action of Heat, and the Theory of Thermo-dynamic Engines, 115.
Ross (Capt. Sir J. C.). On the Effect of the Pressure of the Atmosphere on the Mean Level of the Ocean, 285.

Rotatory motion, equations of, 105.

S.

Solar rays, reciprocal action of, 11; vis viva, different phenomena and definition of, 12; greatest in the incident wave, 13; equations for the determination of, 15; statical equivalent of reflected and refracted rays, 18; demonstration that transmitted solar rays are accompanied by a diminution of the refractive index, 25; effect of absorption antagonistic to chromatic dispersion, 32; explanation of rotatory phenomena of polarization, 35.

Spermatozoom, method for observing its penetration of ovum, 230; proofs of penetration, 232; influence of, in the direction of the primary yelk-cleft, 242.

Square numbers, certain properties of, 311.

Steam, saturated, on the density of, 344.

T.

Thermo-dynamic engines, theory and efficiency of, 137; efficiency between given limits of actual heat, 139; of the use of the economiser or regenerator, 140; advantage of a regenerator, 143; of temperature, and mechanical hypothesis of molecular vortices, 146; relation between temperature and actual heat, 147; numerical computation of efficiency, 149; a heterogeneous mass or aggregate in vapour-engines, 154; absolute maximum efficiency of vapour-engines, 163.

Toluyl-urea, 48.

Tyndall (J.). On the Vibrations and Tones produced by the Contact of Bodies having different Temperatures, 1; different views concerning, 2; the rocker, 3; tones from substances of the same nature, 4, 5; from the contact of metallic with non-metallic, 7; not dependent on conducting power, 9.

U.

Urine, indigo in, 297.

V.

Vibrations and tones, how produced in metals and other substances, 2.
PRESENTS

RECEIVED BY

THE ROYAL SOCIETY,

WITH THE

NAMES OF THE DONORS.

From November 1853 to June 1854.

PRESENTS. DONORS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES.

Albany:—Transactions of the Albany Institute. Vol. II. 8vo. Albany 1852. The Institute.

Basel:—Bericht ueber die Verhandlungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft. Bd. 10. 8vo. Basel 1852. The Society.

Batavia:—

Verhandelingen van het Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen. Deel 24. 4to. Batavia 1852. The Society.

Bibliothecae Societatis Artium Scientiarumque quæ Batavie floret, Catalogus systematicus. 8vo. Batavia 1853.

Berlin:—

Abhandlungen der Königlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften. Aus dem Jahre 1852. 4to. Berlin 1853. The Academy.

Monatsbericht. May to Dec. 1853. Jan. to Apr. 1854. 8vo. The Physical Society, Berlin.

Die Fortschritte der Physik im Jahre 1849. 5er Jahrgang. 8vo. Berlin 1853.

Berwick:—Proceedings of the Berwickshire Naturalists’ Club. Vol. III. Nos. 3 and 4. 8vo. The Club.

Bologna:—

Memorie della Accademia delle Scienze. Tomo III. 4to. Bologna 1851. The Academy.

Rendiconto delle Sessioni 1851–1852. 8vo. Bologna 1852.

Della Instituzione de’ Pompieri per grandi città e Terre minori, &c. per Francesco del Giudice. 8vo. Bologna 1852.

Bombay:—Transactions of the Medical and Physical Society. No. 1. New Series. 8vo. Bombay 1853. The Society.

Boston:—

Memoirs of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Vol. V. Part I. 4to. Cambridge and Boston 1853.

Proceedings. May 1848 to May 1852. Vol. II. 8vo. 1852. Index to Vol. I. The Academy.

MDCCCLIV.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Boston:—
Map of Tornado. Sheet.
Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History, Jan. 1851 to Oct. 1852. Svo.
Journal. Parts 1 and 2. Vol. VI. Svo. Boston 1850.

Breslau:—
Dreissigster Jahres-Bericht der Schlesischen Gesellschaft für vaterländische Kultur. Im Jahre 1852. 4to. Breslau.
Denkschrift zur Feier ihres 50 jährigen Bestehens herausgegeben von der Schlesischen Gesellschaft für vaterländische Kultur. 4to. Breslau 1853.

Brussels:—
Mémoires de l'Académie Royale des Sciences. Tom. XXVII. 4to. Bruxelles 1853.
Mémoires Couronnés, &c. Part 2. Tom. V. Part 1. Tom. VI. Svo, Bruxelles 1853.
Bulletins: Tom. XX. Svo. Bruxelles 1853.
Instructions pour l'Observation des Phénomènes Périodiques. 4to.
Maritime Conference held at Brussels for devising a uniform System of Meteorological Observations at Sea. Aug. and Sept. 1853. 4to.
Sur l'Électricité Naturelle des Corps. Svo.
Sur les Étoiles Filantes Périodiques des 9 et 10 Août. Svo.
Note sur l'Erreur probable d'un passage observé à la Lunette Méridienne de l'Observatoire Royale de Bruxelles. Svo.
Sur la Météorologie Nautique et la Conference Maritime tenue à Bruxelles. Svo.
Sur la Diminution de l'Inclinaison Magnétique en Europe. Svo.

Calcutta:—Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal. Nos. 1 to 7. 1853.
Cambridge:—Transactions of the Philosophical Society. Vol. IX. Part 3. 4to. Cambridge 1853.
Cherbourg:—Mémoires de la Société des Sciences Naturelles de Cherbourg. Liv. 2, 3, 4. Cherbourg 1853. Vol. I. Svo.

Copenhagen:—
Det Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskabs Skrifter. Femte Raekke. 3ie Bind. 4to. Kjöbenhavn 1853.
Oversigt...i Aaret 1853. Svo.
Reclamation contre "la Génération alternante et la Digenèse," &c. Par J. J. Sm. Steenstrup. Svo. Copenhague 1854.

Cornwall:—
Twentieth Annual Report of the Royal Cornwall Polytechnic Society, 1852. Svo.
Thirty-ninth Annual Report of the Geological Society of Cornwall, 1852. Svo.

Dijon:—Mémoires de l'Académie des Sciences. Tom. I. et II. 2me Série. Svo. Dijon et Paris 1852-54.

Dublin:—
Royal Irish Academy. Proceedings. Vol. V. Svo. Dublin 1853.

DONORS.

The Academy.
The Society.
The Society.
The Academy.
The Society.
The Society.
The Society.
The Society.
The Society.
The Society.
The Society.
The Society.
The Society.
The Society.
The Society.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Dublin:—
Geological Society. Journal. Vol. V. Part 3. Vol. VI. Part 1. 8vo. 1853. The Society.

Edinburgh:—
Royal Society. Transactions. Vol. XX. Part 4. 4to. 1853. The Society.
Proceedings. Vol. III. No. 43. 8vo. The Society.
Royal Scottish Society of Arts. Transactions. Vol. III. Part 1. 8vo. Edinburgh 1845.
Transactions of the Architectural Institute of Scotland. Vol. III. Part 1. 8vo. 1853.
Fourth Report. 8vo. Edinburgh 1853.

Göttingen:—
Abhandlungen der königlichen Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. 5te Band. 4to. Göttingen 1853.
Nachrichten. Nos. 1–17. 1853. 8vo. Göttingen.

Haarlem:—Natuurkundige Verhandelingen van de Hollandsche Maatschappij.
2de Verzameling 8de en 9de deel. 4to. Haarlem 1853–54.

Helsingfors:—
Acta Societatis Scientiarum Fennicae. Tomi III. Fasc. 2. 4to. Helsingfors 1852.
Notiser ur Sallskapets pro Fauna et Flora Fennica Förhandlingar. 4to. 1852.

Lausanne:—Bulletin de la Société Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles. Nos. 25 to 29. Tom. III. 8vo. 1853.

Leeds:—Philosophical and Literary Society. Annual Report for 1852–53.

Leipzig:—
Abhandlungen der Math-phys. Classe der Königl. Sächsischen Gesellschaft. 8vo. Leipzig 1854.
der Philologisch-historischen Classe. Bänd. 1 und 3. 8vo. Leipzig 1850–53.
Math-phys. Classe. 8vo. 1854. Heft 1–3. 8vo. 1854.
Berichte ueber die Verhandlungen. Phil.-hist. Classe. Bd. 1 to 7. 8vo. Leipzig 1846–53.

Liège:—
Mémoires de la Société Royale des Sciences de Liège. Tom. I. to VIII. 1843–53. 8vo. Liège.
Planches. 4to. 1847.

Liverpool:—Proceedings of the Literary and Philosophical Society. No. 7. 1851–53.

London:—
British Association. Report of the Twenty-second Meeting. 8vo. London 1853.
Chemical Society. Quarterly Journal. Nos. 22 to 25. 8vo. The Society.
Chronological Institute. Transactions. Part 1. 8vo. London 1852. The Institution.
Entomological Society. Transactions. Vol. II. Parts 3 to 5. 8vo. 1853. The Society.
Geological Society. Quarterly Journal. Vol. IX. Parts 3 and 4. Vol. X. Parts 1 and 2. 8vo. 1853–54.
Horticultural Society. Journal. Nos. 3 and 4. Vol. VIII. Nos. 1 and 2. Vol. IX. 8vo. The Society.

Donors.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

London:—

Institute of British Architects. Proceedings. November 1853 to May 1854. The Institute.

Report of Council, May 1.

Linnean Society. Transactions. Vol. XXI. Part II. 4to. 1853. The Society.

Proceedings. Nos. 49 to 51. 8vo.

List of Fellows, 1852.

Photographic Society. Journal. Nos. 1 to 17. The Society.

Royal Agricultural Society. Journal. Vol. XIV. Part I. 8vo. The Society.

Royal Asiatic Society. Journal. Vol. XV. Part I. 8vo. 1853. The Society.

Royal Astronomical Society. Memoirs. Vols. XXI. and XXII. 4to. The Society.

1853–54.

Monthly Notices, &c. Vols. XII. and XIII. 8vo. 1852–53. The Society.

Royal Geographical Society. Journal. Vol. XXIII. 8vo. London 1853. The Society.

General Index to the second ten volumes of the Journal. 8vo London 1853.

Royal Institution. Notices of the Meetings, Part 3 and No. 15. 8vo. The Institution

List of Members and Report. 1852. 8vo.

Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society Transactions. Vol. XXXVI. 8vo. The Society.

London 1853.

Society of Antiquaries. Archaeologia. Vol. XXXV. 4to. The Society.

Proceedings. 33 to 36. 8vo.

List of Fellows, 1853.

Catalogue of Roman Coins, collected by the late Rev. Thomas Kerrich, M.A., F.S.A., &c. 8vo. 1852.

Society of Arts. Journal. Nos. 30 to 81. 8vo. The Society.

Statistical Society. Journal. Vol. XVI. Parts 3 and 4. Vol. XVII. Parts 1 and 2. 8vo. 1853–54.

Milan.—Atti della sesta Riunione degli Scienziati Italiani tenuta in Milano nel Settembre 1844. 4to. Milano 1845.

Moscow.—Bulletin de la Société Impériale des Naturalistes. Nos. 3 and 4, 1851; 1 to 4, 1852; 1 and 2, 1853. 8vo. Moscou.

Munich:—

Abhandlungen der Historischen Classe der Königl. Bayerischen Akademie der Wissenschaften. Band 7. Abth. 1. 4to. München 1853.

Math.-phys. Classe. Band 7. Abth. 1. 4to. München 1853.

Bulletin. Nos. 1 to 52, 1853. 4to.

Gelehrte Anzeigen. Bd. 36, 37. 4to. München 1853.

Rede zur Vorfeier des hohen Geburtsfestes Sr. Maj. des Königes Maximilian II. 4to. München 1853.

Ueber die Bewegung der Bevölkerung im Königreiche Bayern. Festrede, 4to. München 1853.

Die Classischen Studien und ihre Gegner. 4to. München 1853.

Wegweiser für die Besucher des K. Botanischen Gartens in München. Von Dr. C. F. P. von Martius. 8vo. München 1852.

New York:—Annals of the Lyceum of Natural History. 8vo. New York 1853. The Lyceum.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Paris:—

Annuaire de la Société Météorologique de France. Tom. I. Part. 1. The Society.
Feuilles 1 to 8. 4to. Paris 1850.

Archives du Muséum d'Histoire Naturelle. Tom. VII. Liv. 1 et 2. 4to. The Museum.
Paris 1853–54.

Bulletin de la Société de Géographie. 4me Série. Tom. V. et VI. 8vo. The Society.
Paris 1853.

Bulletin de la Société Géologique de France. Feuilles 36 to 40, Tom. IX. The Society.
4 to 40, Tom. X. 1 to 3, Tom. XI. 8vo.

Mémoires présentés par divers Savants à l'Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-lettres. Première Série. Tom. III. 4to. Paris 1853.

Mémoires de l'Académie des Sciences. Tom. XXIV. 4to. Paris 1854.

Comptes Rendus. Nos. 22 to 26. Tom XXXVI. and Table des Matières. Tom. XXXVII., and 1 to 22 Tom. XXXVIII. 4to.

Philadelphia:—

American Philosophical Society. Transactions. Vol. X. Part 2. 4to. Philadelphia 1852.

Proceedings. Vol. V. No. 48. 8vo.

Franklin Institute. Journal. Vol. XXV. No. 6. Vol. XXVI. Nos. 1, 4, 5, 6. The Institute.
Vol. XXVII. Nos. 1, 2, 3, 5. 8vo.

Rome:—

Atti dell' Accademia Pontificia de' Nuovi Lincei. Anno 5. Sessioni 2, 3, 4. The Academy.
4to. Roma 1853.

Corrispondenza Scientifica. No. 43.

St. Petersburgh:—

Mémoires de l'Académie Impériale des Sciences. Sciences Math. et Phys. The Academy.
Tom. V. Liv. 5. et 6. 4to. 1853.

Bulletin de la Classe Historico-Philologique. Tom. X. 4to.

Physico-Mathématique. Tom. XI. 4to.

Recueil des Mémoires présentés à l'Académie des Sciences par les Astronomes de Poulkova. Vol. I. 4to. St. Pétersbourg 1853.

Stockholm:—

Kongl. Vetenskaps-Akademiens Handlingar för år 1851. 8vo. Stockholm 1853.

Översigt. — åttonde årgången 1852. 8vo. 1853.

Register för åren 1820 till och med 1838. 8vo. 1852.

Berättelse om Framstegen i Vertebrerade Djurens Naturalhistoria och Ethnografin under åren 1845–50. 8vo. 1853.

Toronto:—The Canadian Journal, April to December 1853, January to April 1854. 4to. Toronto.

Turin:—Memorie della Reale Accademia della Scienze. Serie Seconda. The Academy.
Tomo XIII. 4to. Torino 1853.

Vienna:—

Denkschriften der Kaiserlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften. Math. Natur. Classe. 4er Band, Lief 1, 5er Band, Lief 1, 2, 6er Band, 1853. 4to. Wien 1852, 1854.

Philos. Histor. Classe. 4er Band. 4to. Wien 1853.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Vienna:—

Tafeln—Math. Natur. Classe. Bd. V. The Academy.
Sitzungsberichte. Phil. Histor. Classe. Band IX. Heft 1, 5. Bd. X. 3, 4, 5. ———
Bd. XI. 1 and 3. 8vo. 1853.
—— Math. Natur. Classe. Bd. IX. Heft 3, 4, 5. Band X. ———
1 to 5. Band XI. 1 to 4. 8vo. 1853.
Almanach der Akademie. 4er Jahrgang 1854. 8vo.
Jahrbuch der K. K. Geologischen Reichsanstalt. No. 4, 1852. Nos. 1, 2, The Institute.
1853. 4to. Wien.
Verhandlungen des zoologisch-botanischen Vereins in Wien. Band I, II. The Society.
8vo. Wien 1852–53.

Washington:—

Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. The Association.
Sixth Meeting. 8vo. Washington 1852.
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. V. 4to. Washington 1853.
Sixth Annual Report of the Board of Regents, &c. 8vo. Washington 1852.
Meteorological Tables, prepared by Arnold Guyot. 8vo. Washington 1853.
Catalogue of Portraits of North American Indians, &c. 8vo. Washington 1852.
Catalogue of North American Reptiles, &c., by S. F. Baird and C. Girard. ———
Part I. Serpents. 8vo. Washington 1853.
Occultations, &c., during the year 1853. 4to. Washington 1853.

ACLAND (H. W.). Synopsis of the Physiological Series in the Christ-Church Museum. 4to. Oxford 1853.

AIRY (G. B.). Astronomical and Magnetical, and Meteorological Observations made at the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, in the year 1851. 4to. London 1853.

ALLMAN (Dr. G. J.). On the Attraction of Ellipsoids, with a new Demonstration of Clairaut's Theorem, &c. 4to. Dublin 1853.

ANDREWS (J. D.). Report on the Trade and Commerce of the British North American Colonies, &c. 8vo. Washington 1853. With three Maps.

ANONYMOUS:—

A Correspondence relating to the Discovery of Gold in Australia. 8vo. London 1853.

Almanaque Náutico para el Año 1855. 8vo. San Fernando 1853.

Annales Hydrographiques. Tom. VI. VII. VIII. 8vo. Paris 1851–52.

Annales des Mines. Liv. 3. Tom. I. 1, 2, 3. Tom. II. 1. Tom. III. 8vo. 1852–53.

Table des Matières, 1842–1851. 8vo. Paris 1853.

Annales Médico-Psychologiques. Par M. M. les Docteurs Baillarger, Brièrre de Boismont, et Cerise. Tom. II. to V. 8vo. Paris 1850–53.

Annuaire des Marées des Côtes des France, 1853–54. 12mo. Paris 1853.

Annual Report of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey, for the year ending Nov. 1851. 8vo. Washington 1852.

Sketches, &c., ditto. 4to.

Donors.

The Observatory.
Le Dépôt de la Marine.
L'École des Mines.
M. de Boismont.
Le Dépôt de la Marine.
Professor A. D. Bache.
ANONYMOUS (continued).

A Subsidiary Catalogue of 1440 Stars, selected from the British Catalogue, reduced to January 1st, 1850, from Observations made at Madras, in the years 1849–53. 4to.

Observations of 144 Double or Multiple Stars, made at the Madras Observatory, with the Lerebours Equatorial in 1850–52. 4to.

Bibliography of American Natural History for the year 1851. 8vo. Washington 1852.

Bulletin des Sociétés Savantes. 8vo. Paris 1854.

Catalogue of the Library of the London Institution. Vol. IV. 8vo. 1852.

Catalogue of Stars near the Ecliptic, observed at Markree, during the years 1851 and 1852, &c. Vol. II. 8vo. Dublin.

Catalogue of the Fellows, &c. of the Royal College of Physicians, 1853.

Census of Great Britain, 1851. Population Tables. Vols. I. II. and Index. Fol. London 1852.

Connaissance des Temps pour l'an 1854 et pour l'an 1855. 8vo. Paris.

Annuaire pour l'an 1853. 12mo. Paris.

Considérations Générales sur l'Océan Atlantique. 8vo. Paris 1852.

Considérations Générales sur l'Océan Pacifique. 8vo. Paris 1851.

Decimal Coinage: What it ought, and what it ought not to be. By one of the Million. 8vo. London 1854.

Figures and Descriptions illustrative of British Organic Remains. Decades 4, 6, 7. 4to. London 1852–53.

Flora Batava. Afl. 9 to 16, 77, 78, 125 to 134, 147, 156 to 158, 160, 173 to 175. 4to.

Tytel en Register to the 1st, 5th, 10th and 11th volumes. 4to.

Grammar of the Bornu or Kanuri Language. Two copies. 8vo. London 1853.

Dialogues, and a small Portion of the New Testament, in the English, Arabic, Haussa, and Bornu Languages. Two copies. Obl. 4to. London 1853.

London University Calendar, 1854. 8vo.

Magnetische und Meteorologische Beobachtungen zu Prag. Eilfter Jahrgang. 4to. Prag. 1853.

Manuel de la Navigation dans la Mer des Antilles. Tom. I. II. 8vo. Paris 1853.

Manuel de la Navigation à la Côte occidentale d'Afrique. Tom. III. 8vo. Paris 1852.

Mémoire sur les Ouragans de la Mer des Indes. 8vo. Paris 1852.

Memoirs of the Geological Survey of Great Britain. Vol. II. Parts 1 and 2. 8vo. London 1848.

Memorie dell' Osservatorio dell' Università Gregoriana del Collegio Romano diretto dai P. P. della Compagnia di Gesu. Anno 1851. 4to. Roma 1851.

Message of the Governor of Maryland, on Boundary Lines, &c. 8vo. Washington 1850.

Notice des Travaux Mathématiques de M. Chasles. 4to.

Observations Météorologiques faites à Nijné-Taguïsk. Années 1850–51. 8vo. Paris 1852.

Purâna Sangraha, &c., edited by Rev. K. M. Bannerjea. No. 1. 8vo. Calcutta 1851.

Donors.

The Directors, Hon. East India Company.

C. Girard, Esq.

The Editor.

The Institution.

Her Majesty's Government.

The College.

The Registrar-General.

Le Bureau des Longitudes.

Le Dépôt de la Marine.

The Author, per Dr. J. E. Gray, F.R.S.

Her Majesty's Government.

His Majesty the King of the Netherlands.

The Right Hon. the Earl of Clarendon.

The University.

The Observatory.

Le Dépôt de la Marine.

Her Majesty's Government.

The Observatory.

Lieut.-Col. Graham, United States Engineers.

The Author.

Prince Demidoff.

The Editor.
ANONYMOUS (continued).

Quarterly Return of Marriages, Births and Deaths. Nos. 18 to 20. 8vo. London 1853.

Records of the School of Mines. Parts 1 to 4. 8vo. London 1852–53.

Rig-Veda-Sanhita, the Sacred Hymns of the Brahmins, &c. Vol. II. Edited by Max. Müller, M.A. 4to. London 1854.

Statistical Reports on the Health of the Navy, 1837–43. Part 2. East India Station. Fol. London 1853.

Tableau Général des Phares et Fanaux des Côtes de la Méditerranée, &c. 8vo. Paris 1852.

The Nautical Almanac for the year 1857. 8vo. London 1853.

The Proof that the Three Angles of a Triangle are equal to Two Right Angles, looked for in the Inflation of the Sphere. 8vo. London 1853.

The Sydney University Calendar, 1852–53. 8vo. Sydney 1853.

Usage du Cercle Méridien portatif pour la Détermination des Positions Géographiques. 4to. Paris 1852.

Verhandelingen der Commissie voor de Geologische Kaart van Nederland. 1ste Deel. 4to. Haarlem 1853.

Where shall the New Law Courts be Built? By an Old Law Reformer. 8vo. London 1854.

ATKINS (Mrs.) Photographs of British Algae. Vol. III. 4to.

AUBÉ (Ph. A.) De l'Electricité, soit de l'Ame universelle considérée dans ses forces motrices. 8vo. Elbeuf 1852.

BACHE (A. D.) Additional Notes of a Discussion of Tidal Observations made in connection with the Coast Survey at Cat Island. 8vo. New Haven 1852.

BAIRD (S. F.) and GIRARD (C.) Characteristics of some new Reptiles in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution. Parts 2 and 3. 8vo.

BALY (Dr. W.) and GULL (Dr. W. W.) Reports on Epidemic Cholera drawn up at the desire of the Cholera Committee of the Royal College of Physicians. 8vo. London 1854.

BARRAL (J. A.) François Arago. 8vo. Paris 1853.

BELL (Thos.) A History of the British Stalk-eyed Crustacea. 8vo. London 1853.

BIRD (Golding) and BROOKE (C.) The Elements of Natural Philosophy, &c. Fourth Edition. 8vo. London 1854.

BIRD (J.) The Laws of Epidemic and Contagious Diseases, &c. 8vo. London 1854.

BLYTH (E.) Catalogue of the Birds in the Museum of the Asiatic Society. 8vo. Calcutta 1849.

BONCOMPAGNI (B.) Della Vita e delle Opere di Guido Bonatti. 8vo. Roma 1851.

Della Vita et delle Opere di Gherardo Cremonese... et di Gherardo di Sabbionetta. 4to. Roma 1851.

Della Versioni fatte da Platone Tiburtino. 4to. Roma 1851.

BUIST (G.) Index to Books and Papers on the Physical Geography, Antiquities and Statistics of India. 8vo. Bombay 1853.

Donors.

The Registrar-General.

Her Majesty's Government.

The Hon. Directors of the East India Company.

Sir W. Burnett, F.R.S.

Le Dépôt de la Marine.

The Superintendent.

Col. T. P. Thomson, F.R.S.

The University.

Le Dépôt de la Marine.

H. M. the King of the Netherlands.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The College of Physicians.

The Smithsonian Institute.

The Author.

The Author.

The Authors.

The Author, per Dr. McWilliam, F.R.S.

The Society.

The Author.

The Author.
PRESENTS.

BURMEISTER (Dr. H.) Reise nach Brasilien, durch die Provinzen von Rio de Janeiro und Minas-Geraes. 8vo. Berlin 1853.

Atlas, with eleven Plates. Obl. 4to. Berlin 1853.

BUSCH (Dr. A. L.) Astronomische Beobachtungen auf der Königlichen Universitäts-Sternwarte in Königsberg. 25er Abth. Fol. Königsberg 1852.

Systematisches Verzeichniss der in der Bibliothek der Königl. Univ. Sternwarte. 8vo. Königsberg 1852.

CAUCHY (A.) Exercices d'Analyse et de Physique Mathématique. Tom. IV. Liv. 46 to 48. 4to. Paris 1847.

CHALLIS (Rev. J.) Astronomical Observations made at the Observatory of Cambridge. Vol. XVII. for the years 1846-48. 4to. Cambridge 1854.

CHESHIRE (E.) The Results of the Census in Great Britain in 1851. 8vo. London 1853.

CHEVREUL (M. E.) Mémoire sur plusieurs Réactions chimiques qui intéressent l'Hygiène des Cités populeuses. 8vo. Paris.

CHIOSSO (Capt. J.) Gymnastics, an essential branch of National Education, &c. 8vo. London 1854.

CHRISTIE (J. R.) An Introduction to the Elements of Practical Astronomy. 8vo. London 1853.

COLT (Col. S.) On the Application of Machinery to the Manufacture of Rotating Chambered-Breech Fire Arms. 8vo. London 1853.

CUNNINGHAM (H. D. P.) The Capabilities and Advantages of Cunningham's Patent Mode of Reefing Toppails, &c. &c. from the Deck, without sending Men aloft, &c. 8vo. Portsea 1853.

DANA (J. D.) On an Isothermal Oceanic Chart, illustrating the Geographical distribution of Marine Animals. 8vo. 1853.

Mineralogical Contributions. 8vo. 1854.

On the Homeomorphism of Mineral Species of the Trimetric System. 8vo. New York 1854.

Appendix to the above. 8vo.

Contributions to Chemical Mineralogy. 8vo. Newhaven 1854.

DAUBENY (Dr. G. C. B.) Can Physical Science obtain a Home in an English University? 8vo. Oxford 1853.

Address delivered at the Anniversary Meeting of the Chemical Society, March 30, 1853.

DAUSSY (M.) Tables des Positions géographiques des principaux lieux du Globe. 8vo. 1854.

DAVIDSON (Thos.) British Fossil Brachiopoda. 4to. London 1851-54.

DAVIES (Lieut. C. H.) Tables of the Moon. 4to. Washington 1853.

DOVE (H. W.) Ueber die nicht periodischen Änderungen der Temperaturverteilung auf der Oberfläche der Erde. 5er Theil. 4to. Berlin 1853.

DU BOIS-REYMOND (E.) On Signor Carlo Matteucci's Letter to H. Bence Jones, M.D., F.R.S., &c. 8vo. London 1853.

DUPIN (Baron C.) Rapport fait sur le prix extraordinaire d'Application de la vapeur à la Navigation et à la force navale. 4to. Paris.

MDCCCLIV.

DONORS.

The Author, per His Excellency the Prussian Minister.

The Observatory.

The Author.

The Observatory.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

Dr. Carpenter, F.R.S.

The Observatory, Washington.

The Author.

The Author.
PRESENTS.

EMMONS (E.) Agriculture of the State of New York. Vols. II. and III. 4to. 1849–51. Plates to Vol. III. 4to.

ENCKE (J. F.) Berliner Astronomisches Jahrbuch für 1856. 8vo. Berlin 1853.

FAIRBAIRN (W.) On the application of Cast and Wrought Iron to Building Purposes. 8vo. London 1854.

FENNINGS (A.) The Specific Remedy to prevent or cure Cholera, &c. 8vo. London.

FLOURENS (M.) Funérailles de M. F. Arago. 4to. 1853.

FORBES (E.) Monograph of the Echinodermata of the British Tertiaries. 4to. London 1852.

——— On the Fluvio-Marine Tertiaries of the Isle of Wight. 8vo.

——— On the Educational Uses of Museums. 8vo. London 1853.

FORBES (J. D.) Norway and its Glaciers visited in 1851, &c. 8vo. Edinburgh 1853.

FORRESTER (J. J.) The Oliveira Prize Essay on Portugal. 8vo. London 1853.

FOUCHER DE CAREIL (A.) Réfutation inédite de Spinoza par Leibnitz, précédée d'un Mémoire. 8vo. Paris 1854.

——— Lettres et Opuscules inédits de Leibnitz, &c. Two parts. 8vo. Paris 1854.

GERLING (Dr.) Graphische Darstellung der magnetischen Deklination zu Marburg, Feb. 1848 zu Dec. 1852. Lithograph sheets.

GIRARD (C.) On the Classification of Mammalia. 8vo.

——— A Revision of the North American Astaci. 8vo.

GODWIN (G.) London Shadows; a glance at the "Homes" of the Thousands. 8vo. London 1854.

GRANT (Lieut.-Col. C. W.) Indian Irrigation, &c. 8vo. London 1854.

GRAY (Henry). On the Structure and Use of the Spleen. 8vo. London 1854.

HALL (James). Natural History of New York. Palaeontology. Vols. I. II. 4to. New York, Boston and Albany 1849–51.

HALLIWELL (J. O.) Curiosities of Modern Shaksperian Criticism.

HAMILTON (Sir W. R.) Lectures on Quaternions, &c. 8vo. Dublin 1853.

HANSEN (P. A.) Entwicklung des Products einer Potenz des Radius Vectors. 8vo. Leipzig 1853.

HANSEN (P. A.) and OLUFSEN (C. F. R.) Tables du Soleil exécutées d'après les ordres de la Société Royale des Sciences de Copenhague. 4to. Copenhague 1853.

HARE (Dr.) Of the Conclusion arrived at by a Committee of the Academy of Sciences of France, agreeably to which Tornados are caused by Heat, &c.

HEYWOOD and SHADWELL. The Poetry of Witchcraft, illustrated by copies of the Plays on the Lancashire Witches. Reprinted under the direction of J. O. Halliwell, Esq., F.R.S. Printed for Private Circulation only. 4to. Brixton Hill 1853.

HIJOSA DE ALAVA, MARQUÉS DE. Investigaciones Matematicas. 8vo. Madrid 1852.

HOGG (J.) On the Sicilian and Sardinian Languages. 8vo. London 1853.

DONORS.

Legislature of the State of New York.

The Observatory, Berlin.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Museum of Practical Geology.

The Author.

The Author.

Dr. Buist, F.R.S.

The Author.

The Legislature of the State of New York.

The Author.

The Royal Saxon Society of Sciences, Leipzig.

The Royal Society of Sciences of Copenhagen.

The Author.

J. O. Halliwell, Esq., F.R.S.

The Author.

The Author.
PRESENTS.

HOWARD (Luke.) Papers on Meteorology, relating especially to the Climate of Britain, &c. 4to. London 1854.

JOURNALS:—

Astronomische Nachrichten. Nos. 864 to 894. The Observatory, Altona.

Journal of the Indian Archipelago. Nos. 1 to 3; 6 to 12. Vol. VII. 8vo. The Editor.

The Literary Gazette, June to Dec. 1852, Jan. to May 1853. The Editor.

The American Journal of Science and Arts. Nos. 47 to 51. Vols. XVI. and XVII. 8vo. The Editors.

The Athenæum. June to December 1853; January to May 1854. The Editor.

The Art Journal. July to December 1853; January to June 1854. Vols. V. and VI. The Editor.

The Builder. Parts 6 to 12. Vol. XI. 1 to 5. Vol. XII. The Editor.

The Philosophical Magazine, July to December 1853; January to June 1854. Richard Taylor, Esq.

JUDKINS (C. J.) A Paper on Sewing Machines. 8vo. London 1854. The Author.

KEBER (F.) Mikroskopische Untersuchungen über die Porosität der Körper. 4to. Königsberg 1854. The Author.

KUPFFER (A. T.) Annales de l'Observatoire Physique central de Russie. 4to. St. Pétersbourg 1853. The Observatory.

——— Année 1850. Nos. 1, 2.

——— Compte Rendu Annual. Année 1852. 4to. 1853.

LAMONT (J.) Magnetische Ortsbestimmungen ausgeführt an verschiedenen Puncten des Königreichs Bayern. Erster Theil. 8vo. München 1854. The Observatory at Munich.

——— Annalen der Königlichen Sternwarte bei München. Band VI. Svo. München 1853.

LETHEBY (H.) Report on the Coal Gas supplied to the City of London, &c. Svo. London 1854. The Author.

LEYMERIE (A.) Essai d'une méthode éclectique ou Wernérienne de Minéralogie. Svo. The Author.

LITTRROW (C. L. von.) Annalen der K. K. Sternwarte in Wien. 3rd Band. Svo. Wien 1854. The Observatory.

MAPS, CHARTS, ENGRAVINGS, &c.:—

71 Geological Maps, Horizontal and Vertical Sections. Coloured. Her Majesty's Government.

Maps and Charts published by the United States Government. The United States Government.

Maps and Charts published by the French Government. Le Dépôt de la Marine.

A Series of Charts, with Sailing Directions...State of California. By Commander C. Ringgold. Fourth Edition. 8vo. Washington 1852. The Observatory, Washington.

Carte Géologique de la Belgique et des Contrées Voisines, par A. Dumont. Ten Sheets. The Author.

Track of the Cyclone, 26th and 27th March, 1853. Sheet. The Directors, East India Company.

Mezzotint engraving of Saturn, as seen with a Newtonian Equatoreal of 13 inches aperture, Nov. 1852. W. De la Rue, Esq., F.R.S.

MAURY (Lieut. M. F.) Explanations and Sailing Directions, to accompany the Wind and Current Charts. 4to. Washington 1852. The Observatory, Washington.

Report on the Geology of the Lake Superior Land District. Part 2. The Iron Region; with Atlas. Svo. Washington 1851. The United States Government.

MELLER (P.) Des Aérostats. Svo. Bordeaux 1851. The Author.
PRESENTS.

MELLER (P.) Planches. 4to.

Projet de Navigation Aérienne. 4to. Paris 1852.

Notice sur les Courants Atmosphériques. 4to. Paris 1853.

MELLONI (M.) Considerazioni ed Esperienze intorno al Magnetismo delle Rocce. Memoria 1. 4to. 1853.

MIGNARD (M.) Suite de la Monographie...ou preuves du Manichéisme de l'Ordre du Temple. 4to. Paris 1853.

MILLER (J. F.) Synopsis of Meteorological Observations made at the Observatory, Whitehaven, in the year 1852. 8vo. Edinburgh 1853.

Singular Iridescent Phenomenon seen on Windermere Lake, October 24, 1851. 8vo. 1853.

Synopsis of the Fall of Rain, &c. in the English Lake District, 1852.

MONTRIOU (C. W.) Magnetical and Meteorological Observations made at the Honourable East India Company's Observatory, Bombay, in the year 1850. 4to. Bombay 1853.

MURCHISON (Sir R. I.) Siluria. The History of the oldest known Rocks containing Organic Remains, &c. 8vo. London 1854.

Address to the Royal Geographical Society of London, May 1853. 8vo. London 1853.

MYLNE (R. W.) Sections of the London Strata, &c. fol. London 1850.

London and its Environs, 1851. Two Topographical Maps.

NEWTON (J.) Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica. Londini MDCLXXXVII. This copy, as shown by the handwriting on the title-page, was presented by Newton to Flamsteed.

PACINI (F.) Sulla Struttura intima dell' Organo Elettrico del Ginnoto e di altri Pesci Elettrici. 8vo. Firenze 1852.

PARAVEY (Le Chevalier de). Mémoire sur la découverte très-ancienne en Asie et dans l'Indo-Perse de la Poudre à Canon et des Armes à Feu. 8vo. Paris 1850.

Origine Chaldéene du Zodiaque. 8vo. 1852.

Lettre à l'Académie des Sciences sur les idées fausses établies en Europe, quant à l'Antiquité de la Chine, &c.

PASINI (L.) I Viaggi di Marco Polo. 8vo. Venezia 1847.

PERIGAL (H.) Geometric Maps. 8vo.

PILCHER (G.) On some Points in the Physiology of the Tympanum. 8vo. London 1854.

PLAYFAIR (Dr. Lyon.) Industrial Education on the Continent. A Lecture. 8vo. London 1852.

QUETELET (A.) Mémoire sur les Variations périodiques et non périodiques de la Temperature. 4to.

Observations des Phénomènes périodiques. 4to.

Notice sur M. Edouard Smits. 4to.

READE (Rev. J. B.) On some early Experiments in Photography. 8vo. London 1854.

RENNIE (Sir J.) Theory, Formation and Construction of British and Foreign Harbours. Part 20, and Supplementary part.

DONORS.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Directors, Hon. East India Company.

The Author.

The Geographical Society.

The Author.

The Author.

J. Baily, Esq.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Museum of Economic Geology.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.
PRESENTS.

RITTER (Carl.) Die Erdkunde von Asien. Band VIII. 2te Abth. 8vo. Berlin 1854.

ROBIN (E.) Rôle de l'Oxygène dans la respiration et la vie des végétaux. 8vo. Paris.

——— Précis élémentaire de Chimie Minérale et Organique, &c. 8vo. Paris 1853.

——— Loi nouvelle régissant les différentes propriétés chimiques, &c. 8vo. Paris 1853.

——— Mode d'Action des Anesthétiques par inspiration, &c. 8vo. Paris 1852.

ROBINSON (Rev. T. R.) On a new Method of Measuring the Angular Aperture of the Objectives of Microscopes. 8vo. Dublin 1854.

——— On the construction of the Cassegrain Telescope. 8vo. Dublin 1854.

RÜPPELL (Dr. E.) Neue Wirbelthiere zu der Fauna von Abyssinien gehörig. fol. Frankfurt am Main 1835.

——— Atlas zu der Reise im nördlichen Afrika. fol. Frankfurt a. M. 1826.

——— Systematische Uebersicht der Vögel Nord-Ost-Afrika's. 8vo. Frankfurt a. M. 1845.

——— Beschreibung und Abbildung mehrerer neuer Fische, im Nil entdeckt. 4to. Frankfurt a. M. 1829.

——— Abbildung und Beschreibung einiger neuen oder wenig bekannten Versteinerungen. 4to. Frankfurt a. M. 1829.

——— Beschreibung und Abbildung von 24 Arten kurzschwänzigen Krabben. 4to. Frankfurt a. M. 1830.

SABINE (Col. E.) Observations made at the Magnetical and Meteorological Observatory at Toronto in Canada. 4to. London 1853. Vol. II. 1843–45.

——— Inaugural Address on the Opening of the Royal Artillery Institution, March 2, 1854. 8vo. London 1854.

SCHOOLCRAFT (H. R.) Information respecting the History, Condition and Prospects of the Indian Tribes of the United States. Part III. 4to. Philad. 1853.

SCHWEIGGER (J. S. C.) Ueber die Umdrehung der magnetischen Erdpole und ein davon abgeleitetes Gesetz des Trabantens- und Planetenumlaufs. 4to. Halle 1853.

SCORESBY (Rev. W.) Magnetical Investigations. 8vo. London. Vol. I. 1844. Vol. II. 1852.

SHADWELL (C. F. A.) Tables for facilitating the determination of the Latitude and Time at Sea by observations of the Stars. New Edition. 8vo. London 1854.

SMEE (A.) The Eye in Health and Disease, &c. Second Edition. 8vo. London 1854.

STEINER (J.) Mathematische Abhandlungen. 3 parts. 4to. Berlin 1848–50–52.

STEVENS (H.) Catalogue of my English Library. London 16mo. 1853.

STRUVE (W.) Positions du Soleil, de la Lune et des Planètes observées à Dorpat depuis 1822 jusqu'à 1838. 4to.

DONORS.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

Her Majesty's Government.

The Author.

The United States Government.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.
PRESENTS.

STRUVE (W.) Sur la jonction des Opérations géodésiques, Russes et Autrichiennes. 8vo. St. Pétersbourg 1853.

Exposé Historique...pour la Mésure de l'Arc du Méridien entre Fuglenaes 70° 40' et Ismaïl 45° 20'. 4to. St. Pétersbourg 1852.

SUMMERS (J.) Lecture on the Chinese Language and Literature. 8vo. London 1853.

SWELLENGREBEL (J. G. H.) Neun verschiedene Coordinaten-systeme. 4to. Bonn 1853.

THIERRY (Dr. A.) Sur l'application du Perchlorure de Fer. 8vo. Paris 1854.

THOMPSON (Dr. T.) Clinical Lectures on Pulmonary Consumption. 8vo. London 1854.

TORTOLINI (B.) Annali di Scienze Matematiche e Fisiche. Tomo IV. 8vo. Roma 1853.

TWINING (Elizabeth.) Illustrations of the Natural Orders of Plants, &c. Parts 23 to 28. fol. London.

VAUQUELIN (F.) De l'Application de la Suture enchévillée à l'Operation de l'Entropion spasmodique. 8vo. Paris 1853.

VENERIO (G.) Osservazioni Meteorologiche fatte in Udine nel Friuli pel quarantennio 1809–1842. fol. Udine 1851.

VILLE (G.) Recherches expérimentales sur la Végétation. 4to. Paris 1853.

VOLPICELLI (P.) Soluzione Algebrica della $x^2 + y^2 = (a^2 + b^2)^k$ essendo $k$ un Interno qualunque. 4to. Roma 1853.

VRIESE (W. H. de) et HARTING (P.) Monographie des Marattiacées. fol. Leide et Dusseldorf 1853.

WALLICH (Dr. N.) Initiatory Attempt to define the species of Hedychium, and settle their synonymy. 8vo. 1853.

WARD (F. O.) Moyen de créer des sources artificielles d'eau pure pour Bruxelles, &c. 8vo. Bruxelles 1853.

WEBSTER (T.) On Property in Designs and Inventions in the Arts and Manufactures. 8vo. London 1853.

WELTON (T. A.) Freedom in America, its extent and influence. 8vo. London 1854.

WESTGARTH (W.) Reports on the Condition and Progress of the colony of Victoria since the discovery of the Gold Fields. 8vo. Edinburgh 1853.

WHITE (Walter.) To Mont Blanc and back again. 16mo. London 1854.

WILLIAMS (J.) Chinese Numismatics. 8vo. 1853.

WILLICH, (C. M.) Popular Tables for ascertaining the value of Lifehold, Leasehold and Church Property, &c. Third Edition. 8vo. London 1853.

Income Tax Tables, 1853 to 1860. Fourth Edition. 8vo. London 1853.

WIX (Rev. S.) The Form of Solemnization of Matrimony illustrated. 8vo. London 1854.

ZANTEDESCHI (F.) Sur le principe électrostatique de Palagi et ses expériences. 4to.

DONORS.

The Author.

The Author.

The Editor.

R. Twinning, Esq., F.R.S.

The Author.

Signor Antonio Venerio.

The Author.

The Author.

The King of the Netherlands.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.