# Back Matter

**Author(s):** Anonymous  
**Year:** 1813  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London  
**Volume:** 103  
**Pages:** 15 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-107418  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/107418>  

---

PRESENTS

RECEIVED BY THE

ROYAL SOCIETY,

From November 1812 to July 1813,

WITH THE

NAMES OF THE DONORS.

1812.

PRESENTS.

Nov. 5. A Description of the Collection of ancient Marbles in the British Museum with Engravings. Part I. London, 1812. 4°

A Treatise on Theatres, by George Saunders. London, 1790. 4°

Tracts on Mathematical and Philosophical Subjects, by Charles Hutton, LL.D. and F.R.S. London, 1812. 3 Vols. 8°

The Elements of Botany, or Outlines of the Natural History of Vegetables, by Benjamin Smith Barton, M.D. Philadelphia, 1812. 8°

Elements of Chemical Philosophy, by Sir Humphry Davy. Part I. Vol. I. London, 1812. 8°

Essai sur la Rage, par M. J. F. A. Lalouette. 8°

Institutions de Physique, par B. G. Sage. Paris, 1811. 3 Vols. 8°

Of the Circle and the infinite Incommensurability of its Area to the Square of its Diameter, with a Demonstration of Dr. Matthew Stewart's 42d Proposition, by James Glennie, Esq. F.R.S. 4°

The Speech of His Royal Highness the Duke of Sussex in the House of Lords, April 21, 1812. 4°

An Account of a Case of Recovery, after an extraordinary Accident, in which the Shaft of a Chaise had been forced through the Thorax, by William Maiden. London, 1812. 4°

Eloge Historique de M. Sabatier, par M. Percy. Paris, 1812. 8°

Della Cometa del 1811, osservata nella Specola di Palermo, par Gius. Piazzi. 4°

DONORS.

The Trustees of the British Museum.

Mr. George Saunders.

Dr. Charles Hutton.

Dr. Benj. Smith Barton.

Sir Humphry Davy.

Mr. J. F. A. Lalouette.

Mr. B. G. Sage.

James Glennie, Esq.

The Editor.

Mr. William Maiden.

Mr. Percy.

Mr. Piazzi.
1813.

Nov. 5. Observations on Dr. Sturges Pamphlet respecting Non-residence of the Clergy, in a Letter from T. B. Howell, Esq. to Mr. Baron Maseres. London, 1803. 8°

The Philosophical Magazine from June to October, 1812. 8°

The Critical Review from June to October, 1812. 8°

A Journal of Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, and the Arts. No. 148 to 152. 8°

The European Magazine from January to October, 1812.

12. A Catalogue of the Archiepiscopal Manuscripts in the Library at Lambeth Palace, with an Account of the Archiepiscopal Registers and other Records there preserved. fol.

Illustrations of the Lotus of Antiquity, by R. Duppa, LL.B. London, 1813 4°

Kongl Vetenskaps Academiens nya Handlingar, Tom. XXX, XXXI, XXXII, for the Years 1809, 1810, and 1811. 8°

A Sermon preached before the incorporated Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts, Feb. 1, 1812, by Samuel Lord Bishop of Carlisle. London, 1812. 4°

De l'Opération de la Cataracte, par A. E. Tartra. Paris, 1812. 4°

Quelques Idées nouvelles sur le Système de l'Univers, par Guil. Ant. Marechal. Paris, 1810. 8°

Mon Opinion sur la Formation des Aerolithes, par Guil. Ant. Marechal. Paris, 1812. 8°

19. Abstract of Answers and Returns made pursuant to an Act (51 George III.) for taking an Account of the Population of Great Britain, and of the Increase and Diminution thereof, 1811. fol.

Comparaison des Organes de la Mastication des Orthoptères, par M Marcel de Serres. 4°

De l'Odorat et des Organes qui paraissent en être le Siège chez les Orthoptères, par M. Marcel de Serres. 4°

Supplement aux Institutions de Physique, par B. G. Sage. Paris, 1812. 8°

Flora Lapponica, Auctore Geor. Wahlenberg. Berlin, 1812. 8°

A Journal of Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, and the Arts. No. 153.

Dec. 10. A Journal of Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, and the Arts. No. 154.

The Philosophical Magazine for November.

The Critical Review for November.

The European Magazine for November.

T. B. Howell, Esq.

Mr. A. Tilloch.

The Proprietor.

Mr. W. Nicholson.

The Editor.

The Archbishop of Canterbury.

R. Duppa, Esq.

The Royal Academy of Sciences of Stockholm.

The Bishop of Carlisle.

Mr. A. E. Tartra.

Mr. G. A. Marechal.

The Speaker of the House of Commons.

Mr. Marcel de Serres.

Mr. B. G. Sage.

Mr. G. Wahlenberg.

Mr. W. Nicholson.

Mr. A. Tilloch.

The Proprietor.

The Editor.
1812.

Dec. 17. Sui Mezzi immediate di estirpare la Povertà in Sicilia, per D. Giuseppe Emmanuale Ortolani. Palermo, 1812.

24. Reports from the Commissioners of Public Records, with an Account of their Proceedings from 1800 to 1812. fol.

Rotuli Hundredorum Temp Hen. III. et Edw. I. In Turri Lond. et in Curia Receptæ Scaccarii Westm. asservati. Vol. I. fol.

Inquisitionum ad Capellam Domini Regis retor-natarum quæ in publicis Archivis Scotiae adhuc servantur Abbreviatio. Vol. I. II. fol.

A Catalogue of the Harleian Manuscripts in the British Museum, with Indexes of Persons, Places, and Matters. Vol. IV. fol.

1813.

Jan. 14. The Critical Review, for December, 1812. A Journal of Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, and the Arts. No. 154.

The Philosophical Magazine for December, 1812.

Annals of Philosophy, No. I.

The European Magazine for December, 1812.

28. Fauna Orcadensis, or the Natural History of the Quadrupeds, Birds, Reptiles, and Fishes of Orkney and Shetland, by the Rev. Geo. Low, &c. Edinburgh, 1813.

Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, published by the Medical and Chirurgical Society of London. Vol. III. London, 1812.

Transactions of the Society instituted at London for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce. Vol. 30.

Feb. 4. Physiological Reflections on the destructive Operation of spirituous and fermented Liquors on the Animal System, by Thomas Forster. London, 1812.

Annals of Philosophy, No. II.

The Critical Review for January.

The European Magazine for January.

The Philosophical Magazine for January.

A Journal of Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, and the Arts. No. 155 and 157.

Biblia Sacra ita exacte translatæ ut statim videatur quid referat unaquæque vox textus.

11. A Voyage to the South Seas, undertaken by Command of His Majesty for the Purpose of conveying the Bread Fruit Tree to the West Indies in His Majesty's Ship Bounty, commanded by Lieut. Wm. Bligh. London, 1792.

A Chart for the Purpose of exhibiting the Tract of His Majesty's Ship Director, in a Voyage to St. Helena and return to England, by Capt. Wm. Bligh, 1800. 1 Sheet.

MDCCCXIII.

Mr. Jos. Emmanuel Ortolani.

The Commissioners of Public Records.

The Proprietor.

Mr. W. Nicholson.

Mr. A. Tilloch.

Dr. Thomas Thomson.

The Editor.

Dr. Wm. Elford Leach.

The Medical and Chirurgical Society of London.

Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce.

Thomas Forster, Esq.

Dr. Thomas Thomson.

The Proprietor.

The Editor.

Mr. A. Tilloch.

Mr. W. Nicholson.

The Abbé Devay.

Rear Admiral Bligh.
Feb. 25. A Survey of the Bay of Dublin, by Capt. Wm. Bligh, 1803. 2 Sheets.

Chart of the Peninsula and Islands beyond the River Ganges, by James Horsburgh, Esq. 1813. 1 Sheet.

Mar. 4. An Introduction to Medical Literature, including a System of practical Nosology, by Thomas Young, M.D. &c. London, 1813. 8°

The Critical Review for February.

A Journal of Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, and the Arts. No. 158.

Annuals of Philosophy, No. 3.

The Philosophical Magazine for February.

The European Magazine for February.

Mar. 11. Appendix to the Doctrine of Life Annuities and Assurances, containing a Paper read before the Royal Society on a new Method of calculating the Value of Life Annuities, by Francis Baily. London, 1813. 8°

Apr. 1. An Examination of the Imposture of Ann Moore, called the Fasting Woman of Tutbury, illustrated by Remarks on other Cases of real and pretended Abstinence, by Alexander Henderson, M.D. London, 1813. 8°

Bibliotheca quam vir doctus et admodum reverendus Daniel Williams, S.T.P. bono publico legavit Catalogus. Londini, 1801. 8°

A Journal of Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, and the Arts. No. 159.

Annals of Philosophy, No. 4.

The Philosophical Magazine for March.

The Critical Review for March.

Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Vol. VI. Part II. Edinburgh, 1809. 4°

An Account of what appeared on opening the Coffin of King Charles I. in the Vault of King Henry VIII. in St. George's Chapel at Windsor, on the 1st of April, 1813, by Sir Henry Halford, Bart. F.R.S. London, 1813. 4°

Bija Ganita, or the Algebra of the Hindus, by Edward Strachey, Esq.

Anatomy of the Heart, Cranium, and Brain, adapted to the Purposes of the medical and surgical Practitioner, and Observations on the Laws of Life and Sensation, by Alex. Ramsay, M.D. 2d Edition. Edinburgh, 1813. 4°

A Series of Plates of the Heart, Cranium, and Brain, in Imitation of Dissections, by Alexander Ramsay, M.D. 2d Edition. Edinburgh, 1813. 4°

A Treatise on new Philosophical Instruments for various Purposes in the Arts and Sciences, with Experiments on Light and Colours, by David Brewster, L.L.D. &c. Edinburgh, 1813. 8°

Rear Admiral Bligh.

James Horsburgh, Esq.

Dr. Young.

The Proprietor.

Mr. W. Nicholson.

Dr. Thomas Thomson.

Mr. A. Tilloch.

The Editor.

Francis Baily, Esq.

Dr. Henderson.

The Trustees of Dr. D. Williams's Library.

Mr. W. Nicholson.

Dr. Thomas Thomson.

Mr. A. Tilloch.

The Proprietor.

The Royal Society of Edinburgh.

Sir Henry Halford, Bart.

Edward Strachey, Esq.

Dr. Alex. Ramsay.

Dr. David Brewster.
May 6. The European Magazine for March.
A Journal of Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, and the Arts. No 161.
Annals of Philosophy, No. 5.
The Philosophical Magazine for April.
The Critical Review for April.
The European Magazine for April.

20. The Transactions of the Linnean Society of London. Vol. XI. Part I. London, 1813. 4°
A short Account of Experiments and Instruments depending on the Relations of Air to Heat and Moisture, by John Leslie, F.R.S. Ed. Edinburgh, 1813. 8°
Reports of the late John Smeaton, F.R.S. made on various Occasions in the Course of his Employment as a Civil Engineer. London, 1812. 3 Vols.

27. Travels in Sweden during the Autumn of 1812, by Thomas Thomson, M.D. London, 1813. 4°
A Treatise on plane and spherical Trigonometry, by Robert Woodhouse, A.M. Cambridge, 1813. 8°

June 3. A Topographical Dictionary of Scotland, and the Islands in the British Seas, &c. by Nicholas Carlisle, Sec. A.S. London, 1813. 2 Vols. 4°
Notice sur la Vie et les Travaux de M. Maskeleyne, lue à la Séance publique de l'Institut National de France de 4 Janvier, 1813, par M. le Chevalier Delambre, Secrétaire perpétuel. Londres, 1813. 4°
Tableau méthodique des Espèces minérales, seconde partie, par J.A.H. Lucas. Paris, 1806. 8°

A Journal of Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, and the Arts. No. 160 and 162.
Annals of Philosophy. No. 6.
The Philosophical Magazine for May.
The Critical Review for May.
The European Magazine for May.

24. A Catalogue of the Library of the London Institution. London, 1813. 8°

July 1. A Journal of Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, and the Arts. No. 163.
The Philosophical Magazine for June.
The Critical Review for June.

8. Théorie analytique des Probabilités, par M. le Comte Laplace. Paris, 1812. 4°
Exposition du Système du Monde, par M. le Comte Laplace. 4th Edition. Paris, 1813. 4°
Expériences sur la Principe de la Vie, notamment sur celui des Mouvements du Cœur, et sur le Siège de ce Principe, par M. Le Gallois. Paris, 1812. 8°

S s 2
1813.

**PRESENTS.**

*July 8.* Opuscules de Physique, par B. G. Sage. Paris, 1813.

Recherches sur la Chaleur développée dans la Combustion, et dans la Condensation des Vapeurs, par le Comte de Rumford, F.R.S. Paris, 1813.

Recherches sur les Bois et le Charbon, par le Comte de Rumford. Paris, 1813.

Annals of Philosophy. No. 7.

The European Magazine for June.

Mémoire explicatif sur la Sphère Caucasiene, et spécialement sur le Zodiaque, par C. G. S. Paris, 1813.

Le Zodiaque expliqué, ou Recherches sur l'Origine et la Signification des Constellations de la Sphère Grecque, traduit du Suedois. Paris, 1809.

Tables Astronomiques publiées par le Bureau des Longitudes de France—et Tables de la Lune par M. Burckhard. Paris, 1813.

**DONORS.**

Mr. B. G. Sage.

Count Rumford.

Dr. Thomas Thomson.

The Editor.

The Author.

The Author.

M. Burckhardt.
INDEX

TO THE

PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS

FOR THE YEAR 1813.

A

Acid, liquid fluoric, discovered by Scheele, description of it, 265
an account of some experiments undertaken to electrize it, 270
Acids, remarks on their influence upon the composition of the urine, 213
Alcohol, remarks on the state in which it exists in fermented liquors, 82
Alcohol of sulphur, or Sulphuret of carbon, experiments on it, 171
preparation and general properties of it, 174
experiments to ascertain whether hydrogen be present in it, 177
experiments to ascertain the presence of carbon in it, 181
particulars respecting the mode in which the proportions of sulphur and carbon in it are established, 188
Ancon, a term applied to a new variety in the breeds of sheep, 93
Ardea Argala, a description of its solvent glands and gizzard, 77
Artery, branchial, observations on its structure 234
Austin, Rev. Gilbert. On a new construction of a condenser and air pump, 138
Azote and chlorine, a new substance formed by their combination, 2

B

Babington, Dr. His letter to Sir Everard Home on the subject of concretions of olive oil and mucus found in the human intestines, 150
INDEX.

Bakerian Lecture, on the elementary particles of certain crystals, 51
Berzelius, J. M. D. His experiments on the alcohol of sulphur, or sulphuret of carbon, 171
——— His appendix to a paper on the alcohol of sulphur, or sulphuret of carbon, 183
Bile, has a power of converting animal substance into fat, 155
Blagden, Sir Charles. His appendix to Mr. Ware's paper on vision, 110
Brande, William Thomas, Esq. His additional remarks on the state in which alcohol exists in fermented liquors, 82
——— His additional observations on the effects of magnesia in preventing an increased formation of uric acid, with remarks on the influence of acids upon the composition of the urine, 213
——— His experiments to ascertain whether an admixture of bile had any effect upon the process of converting animal substance into fat, 154
Brentford, Middlesex, an account of some organic remains found near that place, 131
Brewster, David, LL.D. On some properties of light 101

C

Casowary, long-legged, from New South Wales, description of its solvent glands and gizzard, 79
Cassegrainian telescope, its light compared with that of the Gregorian, 206
Casuarius Emu, description of its solvent glands and gizzard, 78
Chemical combination, observations on the atomic doctrine of it, 190
Chlorine and azote, a new substance formed by their combination, 2
Chromate of lead, on the double refraction of it, 105
Clanny, William Reid, M. D. On the means of procuring a steady light in coal mines without the danger of explosion, 200
Concave glasses, the bad effects resulting from the use of them described, 33
Condenser and air pump, on a new construction of them 138
Cotes's theorem, a remarkable application of it, 8
Cryophorus, description of an instrument so called, 73
Crystalline humour, indispensibly necessary to enable the eye to see at different distances, 44
INDEX.

Crystals, on the elementary particles of certain, - 51
——— on the existence of two dispersive powers in all doubly refracting, - 107
Cube, origin of its form in crystallography, - 59

D

DAVY, SIR HUMPHRY, LL.D. On a new detonating compound, - 1
——— Some further observations on a new detonating substance, - 242
——— His experiments and observations on the substances produced in different chemical processes on fluor spar, - 263
Diamond, on substances which possess a higher refractive power, - 106

E

Elephant, organic remains of that animal found near Brentford, Middlesex, - 134

F

Fat, on its formation in the intestines of living animals, - 146
Fluor spar, some experiments and observations on the substances produced in different chemical processes on it, - 263
Fluoric combinations, the different hypotheses which may be formed on their nature, - 267
——— principle, various attempts to procure it in a pure form - 275
Fluoric compounds, a peculiar substance exists in them, which it is difficult to examine in a pure form, - 278
Fluorine, a name given to a peculiar substance existing in fluoric compounds, - 278
Freezing at a distance, on a method of, - 71

G

Gas, silicated fluoric acid, discovered by Scheele, description of it, - 265
——— fluo-boric acid, discovered by Gay Lussac and Thenard, description of it, - 266
Glands, bronchial, on the black colouring matter of them, - 159
——— gastric, experiments to ascertain the coagulating power of their secretion, - 96
INDEX.

H

Herschel, J. F. W. Esq. On a remarkable application of Cotes's theorem, - 8
Hippopotamus, organic remains of that animal found near Brentford, Middlesex, - 135
Home, Sir Everard, Bart. His description of the solvent glands and gizzards of the Ardea Argala, the Casuarius Emu, and the long-legged Casowary from New South Wales, - 77
His experiments to ascertain the coagulating power of the secretion of the gastric glands, - 96
On the tusks of the narwhale, - 126
On the formation of fat in the intestines of living animals, - 146
His additions to an account of the anatomy of the Squalus Maximus contained in a former paper; with observations on the structure of the branchial artery, - 227
Hooker, Dr. His account of the formation of certain crystals referred to, - 55
Humphreys, Col. David. On a new variety in the breeds of sheep, - 88

K

Kater, Captain Henry. On the light of the Cassegrainian telescope, compared with that of the Gregorian, - 206

L

Lamp, description of one to be used in coal mines, - 205
Lecture, the Bakerian, on the elementary particles of certain crystals, - 51
Light, on some properties of it, - 101
Lungs, on the colouring matter of the black spots on them, - 159

M

Magnesia, additional observations on its effects in preventing an increased formation of uric acid, - 213
Marcelet, Alexander, M.D. His experiments on the alcohol of sulphur, or sulphuret of carbon, - 171
His experiments on the production of cold by the evaporation of the sulphuret of carbon, - 252
INDEX.

Micrometer, description of one with a single lens, - 119
Mines, coal, on the means of procuring a steady light in them without the danger of explosion, - 200
explosions in, a few of the most considerable in the neighbourhood of Durham recorded, - 201

N
Narwhale, on the tusks of that animal, - 126
Near sightedness usually commences between the ages of ten and eighteen, - 31
affects the higher classes of society more than the lower, - ib.
sometimes occasioned by an evident change in the spherical figure of the cornea, - 34
seldom alike in the two eyes, - 35
has no dependence on the greater or smaller degree of convexity possessed by the cornea, - 41
not necessarily occasioned by a morbid protrusion of the whole eye, - ib.

O
Observations of some principal fixed stars, results of them, - 285
β Ursæ Minoris, - ib.
β Cephei, - 286
α Ursæ Major. - ib.
α Cephei, - ib.
α Cassiopeiae, - 287
γ Ursæ Major. - ib.
γ Draconis, - 288
η Ursæ Major. - 289
α Persei, - ib.
Capella, - 290
α Cygni, - 291
α Lyrae, - ib.
Castor, - 292
Pollux, - ib.
β Tauri, - ib.
α Cor. Bor. - 293
α Arietis, - ib.
Arcturus, - 294
Aldebaran, - ib.
β Leonis, - 295.

MDCCCXIII.
INDEX.

α Herculis, - 295
α Pegasi, - ib.
Regulus, - 296
α Ophiuchi, - 297
α Aquilae, - 298
Procyon, - ib.
α Orionis, - 299
α Serpentis, - ib.
Polaris, - 300

Octohedron, the most common form of crystallized bodies, - 51
Olive oil, concretions of it found in the human intestines, - 150

P

Pearson, George, M.D. On the colouring matter of the black bronchial glands, and of the black spots of the lungs, - 159
Pond, John, Esq. Astronomer Royal. His observation of the summer solstice of 1812, at the Royal Observatory, - 27
His catalogue of north polar distances of some of the principal fixed stars, - 75
His observation of the winter solstice of 1812, with the mural circle at Greenwich, - 123
His catalogue of north polar distances of eighty-four of the principal fixed stars, deduced from observations made with the mural circle at the Royal Observatory, - 280
Observations of the summer solstice of 1813, with the mural circle, at the Royal Observatory, - 304
Prechtel, M. His theory respecting various crystalline forms referred to, - 62
Prisms, hexagonal, origin of their form in crystallography, - 59

R

Rhea Americana, description of its solvent glands and gizzard, - 80
Rhomboid, obtuse, origin of its form in crystallography, - 57

S

Sheep, on a new variety in their breed, - 88
Sight, observations relative to the near and distant sight of different persons, - 31
Smithson, James, Esq. On a substance from the elm tree called ulmin, - 64
INDEX.

Smithson, James, Esq. On a saline substance from Mount Vesuvius, 256
Solstice, summer, observation of that of 1812, at the Royal Observatory, 27
observation of that of 1813, at the Royal Observatory, 298
winter, observation of that of 1812, with the mural circle at Greenwich, 123
Spheres, perfect, supposed to be the elementary particles of fluor spar and such other substances as assume the octohedral and tetrahedral forms, 54
Squalus Maximus, additions to an account of its anatomy contained in a former paper, 227
Stars, principal fixed, catalogue of north polar distances of some of them, 75
catalogue of north polar distances of eighty four of them, 281
Struthio Gamelus, description of its solvent glands and gizzard, 80
Sulphuret of carbon, or Alcohol of sulphur, experiments on it, 171
experiments to determine the proportions of sulphur and carbon contained in it, 182
comparison of the proportions of sulphur, and carbon in it, with those which might be inferred from the laws of determinate proportions, 189
experiments on its combination with the alkalies, the earths, and the metallic oxyds, 192
experiments to determine the nature of a particular substance produced by the action of nitro-muriatic acid upon it, 195
experiments on the production of cold by the evaporation of it, 252

T
Tetrahedron and octohedron, relation of these solids to each other in crystallography, 51
Trimmer, Mr. William Kirby. His account of some organic remains found near Brentford, Middlesex, 131
Tycho L. Tychonius. His account of a narwhale's skull, published in 1706, referred to, 127

U
Ulmin, on a substance from the elm tree, so called, 64
INDEX.

Ulmin, English, experiments on it, - 68
Vesuvius, Mount, on a saline substance from it, - 256
Vision, an appendix to Mr. Ware's paper on that subject, - 110
Vitreous humour, its absorption probably the cause of amended vision in old persons, - 42

W

Ware, James, Esq. His observations relative to the near and distant sight of different persons, - 31
Wires, on a method of drawing them extremely fine, - 114
Wollaston, William Hyde, M.D. Bakerian lecture, on the elementary particles of certain crystals, - 51
On a method of freezing at a distance, - 71
Method of drawing extremely fine wires, - 114
His description of a single lens micrometer, - 119

CORRIGENDA.

Page 175, line 13, for one-fourth—read one-third
177, — 17, for preponderates over that of either the olive oil or phosphorus—read be exceeded by that of the alcohol of sulphur.
246, — 10, after attraction of—add the azote of
23, for produced—read produced,—and dele the comma after portion.
249, — 11, for 261.—read 268.
264, — 18, for the other—read the other of which
268, — 15, for bases,—read basis
273, — 11, for metal, positively electrified—read metal positively electrified.

From the Press of
W. Bulmer & Co.
Cleveland-row, St. James's,
London.