# An Account of a Book

**Author(s):** J. Harris  
**Year:** 1704  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions (1683-1775)  
**Volume:** 24  
**Pages:** 5 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-102947  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/102947>  

---

VI. An Account of a Book. Lexicon Technicum:
Or, an Universal English Dictionary of Arts and Sciences, explaining not only the Terms of Art, but the Arts themselves. In Folio. By J. Harris, M. A. and F. R. S.

The design of this Dictionary is different from that of most others; for here are explained not only the Terms which are used in every Art and Science, but likewise the Arts and Sciences themselves; in most of which the Reader will find something that is new, and all things deliver'd in a clear and regular method.

The Author hath been very full and particular in all the parts of the Mathematicks.

In Geometry, under the name of each Figure he demonstrates its essential Properties, and shews its construction and use.

Under such words as Parabola, Ellipsis, Hyperbola, the Author is very large, and not only defines those Figures, but demonstrates their most remarkable and Primary Properties; as likewise those of the Conchoid, Cycloid, Logarithmic Line, Cissoid, Quadratrix, and Spiral Lines; and is very full in the useful arts of Trigonometry, both Plain and Spherical, with their uses and applications; in Spherical Geometry, or the Art of projecting the Sphere in plano, in Surveying, Dyalling, &c. in all which he has not so strictly confin'd himself to other Authors, but that the Reader may meet with something that is new.

Under Algebra and the Terms thereunto belonging (such as Equation, Construction, &c.) he hath given a clear and distinct account of the nature of that Science; giving all the Rules together with their Reasons and Demonstrations, the Resolution of Adected Equations, the Constructions of Cubicks and Biquadraticks, with the Investigation of Mr Baker's Central Rule, &c.
Under the word *Asymptote* he hath several considerations concerning Asymptotical Curves, where he shows that Curves which admit of no Rectilineal Asymptot may notwithstanding be asymptomatical to one another, with several other considerations of the like nature. Nor has he been less full in what we call the new Methods; under the word *Fluxions* he has given us the first Principles of that Science, viz. the nature and Algorithm of them; and their use and application he has everywhere given under proper heads, and by these is shown an universal Method of drawing of Tangents to all Curves, of determining the Points of Inflexion and Retrogression: of resolving questions de Maximis & Minimis; of finding the Centres of Gravity, Oscillation, &c.

All the parts of Arithmetic are here explained, with its application to Anatocism, compound Interest, and Annuities, together with the doctrine of Surds, the Method of Extracting Roots by converging Series, Logarithms, and Fractions, both Vulgar, Decimal, and Sexagesimal.

He hath likewise given the Description and Use of both the Celestial and Terrestrial Globe, the different Hypotheses of Astronomers, with an explication of the Terms belonging to each; the Parallaxes, Magnitudes, Motions, and Distances of the Planets; with several curious Observations relating to the Heavenly Bodies, Mr Newton's Theory of the Moon, with a large account of Comets, from the same Author; the Nature and Use of Opticks, Catoptricks, Dioptricks, with several Methods for finding the Foci of Spherical Glasses, the doctrine of the Acceleration of Heavy Bodies; the composition of Motion, Geography, Musick, &c.

In Anatomy he has been very particular, giving a large account of all the Parts of a Humane Body, both Internal and External, with the descriptions of the Muscles and Bones, in a fair Plate, and under such general words as Blood, Circulation, Heart, Ear, Eye, Arteries, Veins, Bile, Lymph, Chylification, &c. he hath always consulted the best Authors.
In Architecture likewise he hath in a Plate given an explanation of the five Orders of Pillars, together with a full and clear account of the Nature and Rules of that Art, which is to be met with under the several terms thereunto belonging.

In Fortification, besides an explication of the whole Art under proper terms from the best Authors in that kind, he hath also a new Plate with a description annexed, wherein all the parts of a Fortify'd place are clearly seen at one view.

He hath described the several parts of a Ship, both as in the Dock when Building, and when Rigged and under sail at Sea: Wherein he has been very accurate and particular; for besides the helps of the best Dictionaries in that kind, as well as Draughts, Sections and Models, he has often gone aboard himself to get a more ready and sure knowledge in this matter.

He hath given the Laws of Motion, both with respect to uniform and accelerated Motions, he hath determin'd the Laws of the shock of Bodies perfectly hard, and those that are Elastic, &c.

In Gunnery he hath given demonstrative rules and methods for shooting in Great Guns and Mortars, from the Theorems of the Learn'd Captain Halley, and from Mr Anderson's Tables.

He hath given us also the Doctrine of Mechanicks and Staticks, hath determin'd the Laws of Projectiles, and is very large in Hydrostaticks, giving an account of the nature and properties of Fluids, determining them both Experimentally and Mathematically, and has annexed a very accurate Table of the Specifick gravities of different Bodies, from Mr Boyle, Mr Collins, and his own Experiments.

The Grand Phenomena of Nature he hath explain'd from the best Authors, as the Law of Gravitation from Mr Newton, the Theory of the Tides from Captain Halley on his Principles, &c. And under such general Terms as Magnetism, Light, Colours, Elasticity, Solidity, Divisibility, Volatility, Firmness, Heat, Cold, Wind, &c. you have what is discovered concerning the nature and properties of those qualities from Experiments and Observation.

The Phenomena of the Rainbow or Iris, he hath accounted for from the Learned and Ingenious Captain Halley.

He hath given an account of Snow from Dr Grew, and one of Ice from the French.

As to Sound he hath collected all he cou'd meet with, but withal hints, that that quality is not sufficiently understood, and wishes it were a little better considered.

He is very full in his Explication of the Phenomena and Properties of the Air and Atmosphere, as its Gravity, Spring or Elasticity,
ty, &c. and likewise in its descriptions of the use of such Instruments as have been invented, to enable us to judge of them, as the Barometer, Thermometer, Hygrometer, &c. most of which is from the Honourable Mr Boyle and the Philosophical Trans.

He hath given an account of Springs and Fountains from Capt. Halley and Dr Woodward.

In the Art of Botany he hath been very large, giving an account of the several kinds of subalternate Species of Plants, and their Specifick differences, in which he chiefly follows our excellent Botanist Mr Ray, but hath consulted Mr Tournefort, also Morison and other Writers on this subject.

He hath explain'd the method of calculating of Automata or Clock and Watch-work from Mr Derham, as also the terms of Art used in Painting and Sculpture.

He has given a Table of Fossils from the Learn'd Dr Woodward; a Scheme of Metals and Stones from Bp Wilkins real Character; and a Table of Animals from Mr Ray.

He has also given from Dr Woodward a very large account of Vegetation confirm'd by very accurate Experiments and Observations, from all which that matter is set in a better light than it has ever yet appeared in.

In Chymistry he hath been very large and particular, explaining the Chymical Principles, Vessels and degrees of Fire, and hath omitted no process or Operation of use, that he could either meet with in Books, procure from his Friends, or had an opportunity of trying himself.

In Heraldry he hath given the entire Art of Blazoning and Marshalling a Coat of Arms; and explained all the Ordinarys, Charges, Bearings, &c. by Figures, but hath said nothing of Families (any further than that such a Coat belongs to such a Name) explaining only the Art and its terms.

In Logick, Metaphysics, Ethics, Grammar, Rhetorick, &c. he is designedly very short; giving usually the bare explication of the Words and terms of those Arts.

In History and Chronology he hath given what properly belongs to them as Arts, as an account of the Civil computation of time, the original and reduction one to another of the several Era's, Epoch'a's, Periods, &c.

As to the Law, he has consulted the best Authors and Dictionaries in that kind he could meet with, and hath from thence transcribed abridgedly all that seem'd necessary, and then had it examin'd and corrected by a Person of known Ability in that Profession.

Printed for Sam. Smith and Benj. Walford, Printers to the Royal Society, at the Princes Arms in St Paul's Church-yard. 1704.

ADVERTISEMENT.

Tables of Interest for all Rates and Times, newly and exactly computed, by Mr Israel Falgate, at the Bank of England.