# An Account of Two Books

**Author(s):** Robert Boyle, W. Sympson  
**Year:** 1668  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions (1665-1678)  
**Volume:** 3  
**Pages:** 9 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-101317  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/101317>  

---

An Account of two Books.

I. A CONTINUATION of NEW EXPERIMENTS Physico-Mechanical, touching the SPRING and WEIGHT of the AIR, and their Effects; the I. PART, &c. by the Honourable ROBERT BOYLE, Fellow of the Royal Society, Oxford 1668 in 4°.

The Illustrious Author of this Book hath therein afresh furnished the Philosophical World, with a set of very material and pregnant Experiments (to the number of 50.) which are partly improvements of the former of this Nature, partly, (and those far more numerous) superadded new ones: concerning which, He declareth, that in great part he aimed thereby to shew, that these very phenomena, which the School-Philosophers urge, as clear proofs of Nature's Abhorrency of a Vacuum, may be not only explicated, but actually exhibited, some by the Gravity, and some also by the bare spring of the Air; which latter he now mentions as a distinct thing from the other, not as if it were actually separated in these Tryals (since the Weight of the upper parts of the Air does, as 'twere, bend the Springs of the lower) but because that having in the formerly published experiments, and even in some of these, manifested the efficacy of the Air's Gravitation on Bodies, he thought fit to make it his task in many of these, to shew, that most of the same things, that are done by the Pressure of all the super-incumbent Atmosphere acting as a Weight, may be likewise perform'd by the Pressure of a small portion of Air, included indeed, but (without any new Compression) acting as a Spring.

The Experiments themselves, contain'd in this Book, are still of that sort, which need but a short absence of the Air; there being another sort, which require, that the Air should be kept out for a considerable time from the Bodies, whereon the trial is made; concerning which latter, the Author still gives the Reader hopes of presenting him in due time with such as may not be unacceptable to him. The Experiments of this Part are;

1. About the raising of Mercury to a great height in an open Tube, by the Spring of a little included Air; wherein 'tis discours'd, how this Experiment may be made use of against those, who in the explication of the Torricell Experiment recur to a Funiculus, or a Fuga Vacui.

C c c c c

2. Sheweth,
2. Sheweth, that much included Air rais'd Mercury in an open Tube no higher, than the weight of the Atmosphere may in a Baroscope: where notice is taken of the great force of the Spring of the Air then when it could not raise the Mercury any higher.

3. Sheweth, that ye Spring of the included Air will raise Mercury to almost equal heights in very unequal Tubes; where the reason is added, why this and the former Experiment were not tried in Water; as also an Account of an adventitious Spring, that was super-added to the Air by Heat.

4. About a New Hydraulo-pneumatical Fountain, made by the Spring of un-compressed Air; together with the uses to be made of it, as in Hydraulo-pneumatics, or to shew, by what degrees the Air restores itself to its Spring; or especially to find, what kind of Line the Salient water describes in ratify'd Air.

5. About a way of speedily breaking flat Glasses by the weight of the Atmosphere.

6. Sheweth, that the breaking of Glass-plates in the foregoing experiment need not to be imputed to the Fuga Vacui.

7. About a convenient way of breaking blown Bladders by the Spring of the Air included in them: and of the usefulness of this Experiment in other trials.

8. About the lifting up a considerable weight by the bare Spring of a little Air included in a Bladder. Which as 'tis a surprising experiment, so it seems not unserviceable for the explaining of the motion of the Muscles.

9. About the breaking of Hermetically seal'd Bubbles of Glass by the bare Spring of their own Air; with an observation, that they broke not presently, and what the reason might be of the slowness of that effect.

10. Contains two or three trials of the force in the Spring of our Air uncompress'd, upon stable and even solid Bodies, whereunto 'tis external.

11. Shews, that Mercury will in Tubes be rais'd by Suction no higher than the weight of the Atmosphere is able to impell it up: where the Principle of a Fuga Vacui, and that of a Funiculus are shewn to be insufficient.

12. About the different heights, whereto Liquors will be rais'd by Suction, according to their several specific Gravities: accompanied with a remark, that the proportion of the weight of Mercury to Water is not quite as 14 to 1; as also, that the no-
tion of a *Fuga Vacui* is unreasonable; together with the use that may be made of this Experiment in the estimating the gravity of several Liquors, with some trials thereupon.

13. About the Heights, to which Water and Mercury may be rais'd, proportionably to their specific Gravities, by the Spring of the Air.

14. About the Heights answerable to their respective Gravities, to which Mercury and Water will subside, upon the withdrawing of the Spring of the Air.

15. About the greatest height to which Water can be rais'd by Attraction: where the height of the Water is compar'd to that of the Quicksilver at the same time in a Baroscope, and examined according to the proportion of their specific Gravities; together with a reflexion on a mistake in the common Writers of Hydraulics, having a conceit of carrying Water over never so high Mountains.

16. About the bending of a Springy Body in the exhausted Receiver: no alteration of the Spring discover'd.

17. About the making of Mercurial and other Gages, whereby to estimate how the Receiver is exhausted: of which Gages one is preferr'd and described.

18. Concerning an easy way to make the Pressure of the Air sensible to the Touch of those that doubt of it.

19. About the Subsidence of Mercury in the Tube of the Torricell, Experiment to the Levell of the Stagnant Mercury; accompanied with some confirmations of what had been said in the first Treatise of the Physico-Mechanical Experiments.

20. Shewing, that in Tubes open at both ends, when no *Fuga Vacui* can be pretended, the weight of water will raise Quicksilver no higher in slender than in larger Pipes.

21. Of the Heights, at which pure Mercury, and Mercury amalgam'd with Tinn, will stand in Barometers; together with the use that may be made of this experiment, to discover how much two mixt bodies penetrate one another; as also further to illustrate, that the height of the Liquors in the Torricell Experiment depends upon the *Aequilibrium* with the outward Air.

22. Proposeth a way of making Portable or Travailing Barometers; with a particular description of the Figure, such a Barometer is to be of, the way of filling it, putting it into a Frame, and securing it from the harm, the Mercury itself might
do in the transportation; where is added the great usefulness of this Instrument, with an intimation of others of a different kind, &c.

23. Confirms, that Mercury in a Barometer will be kept suspended higher at the top, than at the bottom of a hill: on which occasion something is noted about the height of Mountains, especially the Pic of Teneriff, esteemed to be in its perpendicular height 7 miles, by the more accurate observations.

24. Shews, that the Pressure of the Atmosphere may be exercised enough to keep up the Mercury in the Torricell experiment, though the Air press upon it at a very small orifice.

25. Shews, that an oblique pressure of the Atmosphere may suffice to keep up the Mercury at the usual height in the Torr. Experiment, and that the Spring of a little included Air may do the same; together with the use that may be made of the former experiment for a portable Baroscope.

26. About the making of a Baroscope, that serves but at certain times; taking notice of the arguments it affords against a Fuga Vacui.

27. About the Ascension of Liquors in very slender Pipes in an exhausted Receiver.

28. Touching the great and seemingly spontaneous Ascension of Water in a Pipe fill'd with a compact Body, whose particles are thought incapable of imbibing it: by which is examin'd an Explication, that has been made of the cause of Filtration. Whence a probable cause of the Ascension of Sap into Trees is suggested. An attempt annex'd, to make a Syphon, that should run of itself without Suction.

29. Of the seemingly Spontaneous Ascension of Salts along the sides of Glasses; with a conjecture at the cause of it.

30. Contains an attempt to measure the Gravity of the Cylinders of the Atmosphere, so as that it may be express'd by known and common weights.

31. About the Attractive Vertue of the Loadstone in an exhausted Receiver.

32. Shews, that when the Pressure of the External Air is taken off, 'tis very easie to drawup the Sucker of a Syringe, though the hole, at which the Air or Water should succeed, be stopp'd.

33. About the opening of a Syringe, whose Pipe was stopp'd in the exhausted Receiver, and by the help of it making the Pressure of the Air lift up a considerable weight.

34. Shews
34. Shews, that the Cause of the Ascension of Liquors in Syringes is to be deriv'd from the Pressure of the Air.

35. Shews, that upon the Pressure of the Air depends the sticking of Cupping-Glasses to the fleshy parts they are apply'd to.

36. About the making, without heat, a Cupping-Glass to lift up a great weight.

37. Shews, that Bellows, whose Nose is very well stopt, will open of themselves, when the Pressure of the External Air is taken off.

38. About an attempt to examine the Motions and Sensibility of the Cartesian Materia Subtilis, with a Pair of Bellows (made of a Bladder) in the exhausted Receiver.

39. Contains a further attempt to prosecute the Inquiry propos'd in the fore-going Experiment: First with a Syringe and a Feather; then with a Syringe in Water; where 'tis examin'd, if there be an Æther or Materia Subtilis, what kind of body it must be: with a Confirmation of the 34th Experiment.

40. About the falling, in the exhausted Receiver, of a light Body, fitted to have its motion visibly varied by a small resistance of the Air: where is mention'd a Design to try this way, what the degrees of Celerity would be of descending Bodies in an exhausted Receiver. Directions given, which way to lengthen Receivers for the Trial of this and other Experiments.

41. About the propagation of Sounds in the exhausted Receiver: Two Trials perform'd by the contrivance described as necessary for this and divers other Experiments: Where also is examin'd an assertion of Mersennus, and a Proposal of his shewn to be unpracticable, &c.

42. About the breaking of a Glass-drop in an exhausted Receiver, wherein an Hypothesis, ascribing the Cause of the breaking of them to the force of the External Air, is examin'd.

43. Concerning the Production of Light in the exhausted Receiver.

44. Touching the Production of a kind of Halo and Colours in such a Receiver: The reason of it propos'd, with a suggestion, that the same cause might have been of that Apparition of Light mention'd in the formerly publish't Experiments.

45. About the Production of Heat by Attrition in the exhausted Receiver.

46. About the flaking of Quick-Lime in it.
47. Of an attempt made to measure the Force of the Spring of included Air, and examine a Conjecture of the difference of its strength in unequally broad-mouth'd Vessels.

48. About an easy way of making a small quantity of included Air raise in the exhausted Receiver 50 or 60 pounds, or a greater weight.

49. Concerning the Weight of Air, and the estimating thereof, both by the help of a seal'd Bubble, and by weighing the Receiver itself: together with an Advertisement of the variation of the Gravity of the Air; and that, by Experiments made at different times or places, there are obtain'd different proportions betwixt It and Water.

50. About the disjoining of two Marbles (not otherwise to be pull'd asunder without a great weight) by withdrawing the Pressure of the Atmosphere.

Which Experiments are, where 'twas necessary, illustrated with Figures, to the number of 30 in 8 Plates.

The whole is concluded with some Notes and Trials about the Atmospheres of Consistent Bodies (here below) shewing, that even Hard and Solid Bodies (and some such, as one would scarce suspect) are capable of emitting Effluvia, and so of having Atmospheres; which is prov'd first a priori, both by the Atomical and Cartesian Hypothesis; and then demonstrated by particular Examples in several Bodies: where, instancing in those, that are most fixt, the Author examines the Argument of Descartes against Electrical emanations, drawn from the fixedness of Glass.

Whereunto are subjoyned not only some Observations about the Electricity of Bodies, as that of Amber by the Sun, and that of Glass by the Heat of the Fire; but also some Considerations, that may induce us to believe, that very many other Bodies, not yet discover'd to do so, emit their Effluviums.

II. HYDROLOGIA CHYMICA, or, The Chymical Anatomy of the SCARBROUGH and other Spaws in YORK-SHIRE, &c. by W. SYMPSON. London, 1668, in 8°.

In this Curious and Experimental Treatise the Reader will first meet with some Animadversions upon Dr. Witties Tract of the Scarbrough-Spaw; our Author affirming, that upon bringing
bringing the said Dr. Witties constituent Principles of those Waters to the Test, he could not find them there; nor, upon a thorough examination of the Vertues ascribed to them, see cause to believe them to be such as that Doctor affirms; but, after he hath endeavoured to make it out by severe Trials and Observations, that the five Ingredients assign'd by the said Doctor, viz. Iron, Vitriol, Allum, Niter, and Sea-Salt, are not there, as he lays them down; he declares that he means not to deny them all, but to assert those, which he finds there demonstrable by Experiment; and thereupon affirms, that that, which indeed gives the Essence to this Spaw, is an acid Aluminous Mineral Salt, preying upon and dissolving a slight touch of the Mineral of Iron. And having cleared this by Experiment, he proceeds to consider its Vertues; where, after a short account given of the Original of most Diseases, how they arise from a vitiating of the several Ferments, either causing a rawness, or over-acidity, or other hostile qualities in the Nutritive Juice; he declares, for what Diseases this Spaw is proper, and for what not; affirming, that it avails nothing in Pestilential Diseases, Pleurisies, Poisons, Leprosie, the Lues Venerea, Morpheus, Cancer, Falling-Sickness, Apoplexy, Palsie, Asthma; but that its efficacy is most discernable in the Scurvy, Dropsie, Strangury, or Stone, Faunderie, Hypochondriack Melancholy, Cachexies, and Women's Diseases proceeding from the Obstructions of the Menstrues: adding, that in the Esurine Salt of Allom are as noble medicinal Vertues to be found, as in any other Mineral specificated Salt whatever; this Salt being, in its first Essence, volatile and exquisitely penetrative, forcing its passage through the obstructed Meanders of the bowels, and notably opening the closed parts, and thereby restoring the blood, and other peculiar spirituous Juices of the Genus nervosum, to their primitive fermental vigor.

Secondly, In the same Treatise is contain'd a short Description of the Spaws at Malton and Knarsborough; the former of these two having, in our Author's opinion, the like ingredients with those of Scarbrough, but with a fainter spring; the latter, imbued only with a small portion of Esurine acidity, that hath preyed a little upon, and acquired a slight touch from the Mine of Iron.

Thirdly, He discourses of the Original of Hot Springs and other Fountains; where having shew'd that they come from Mineral Salts, and how
those Salts, upon the contact of one another, or of Mineral Bodies, are the Efficient causes of Heat in those Springs; he thence takes occasion to teach, How Artificial Baths may be made analogical in virtue and operation to the Natural; shewing withal the efficacy of Hot Springs and Baths, whether Natural or Artificial, in curing most of the stubbornest Diseases.

Fourthly, The Author digresses to the Vindication of Chymical Physick describing first, what the Chymical Art is; next, endeavoring to remove the reproach laid on it: and lastly, declaring the great assistances thereby afforded to Nature, above ordinary Shop-preparations, in order to the Cure of Diseases: From which last he takes occasion to expatiate into the praise of this Art, upon the account also of its great usefulness for improving Experimental Philosophy, and for penetrating into the Principles of all Concretes, whether Vegetable, Animal, or Mineral: inserting withal, by way of digression, his thoughts of an Universal Character; meaning such an one, which, being known in all parts of the World, should signify the same thing in all Countreys; so that all People skill'd therein should everywhere read it every one in their own Language.

To all this is annex'd an Appendix concerning the Original of Springs in general, in which the Author admits, that Rain- and Snow-waters are indeed the proximate Cause of all Land-Springs and sudden Floods, filling the Porosities and Channels of the Earth's surface, and that the remaining part stagnates, till it meet with convenient Currents out of Brooks and Ditches into other Rivulets, and those again, by further passages, swell into Rivers, and thereby cause Inundations of low grounds, till those Rivers empty themselves, by other intermediate ones, into the Sea itself: But that the same should be the cause of the Fontes Perenniss, or Living Springs, he positively denies; advancing this Thesis, That there is a Circulation of Water in the Terraqueous Globe, as requisite to its well-being, as the Circulation of Blood in Animals, whereby the water, through subterraneous Channels along the Sabulum bulliens, runs from Sea to Sea, and also from the Sea to the Heads of Springs, and from them into Rivulets, and those into Rivers, and thence into the Ocean, and so circulates round: which, he saith, includes also another Circle of Rain and Snow, which first arising by Exhalations from the Sea and Earth, are carried down again upon the Earth and Sea, and joining issue with Rivulets from Springs, do swell Rivers, which again discharge themselves into the Sea.

Lastly, The Author concludes, first, with an account he gives of a Ternary of Medicines used by himself, for curing many Diseases; viz. 1. Cathartick, or Solutive; 2. Cordial, or expelling of Wind; 3. Diaphoretick, or Sweating. The first he calls Scorbustick Pills; the second, Elixir Proprietatis, or Cordial Elixir; the third, Diaphoretick, or Sweating Pills. Which three Preparations, he saith, are composed of the best Vegetables, extracted by Siles, that are graduated to the highest pitch; experienced by himself to be both safe and effectual in the cure of Diseases. Secondly, with a Description of the Essence, as he calls it, of Scarbrough Spaw; which he maketh to be the remedy after divers fabulous separations; viz. a kind of Alumino-nitrous Salt, which, being duly order'd, shoots into long Cristalline Stiria's, and branches itself forth in various shapes in the bottom of the Glass, exposed to a Balneum Marie.

Errata. No. 41. p.826.l.7.r.ut fiant; ib.l.30.r.angentur; p.827.l.23.r.Tellure; ib.l.ult. r.quid; p.832.l.35.r.notanda.

Errata. No. 42. p.838.l.15.r.proceed in; p.844.l.17.r.albuginea; ib.l.29.r.vide re est.

In the SAVOY,
Printed by T.N. for John Martyn, Printer to the Royal Society, and are to be sold at the Bell a little without Temple-Bar, 1608.