# Back Matter

**Author(s):** Anonymous  
**Year:** 1794  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London  
**Volume:** 84  
**Pages:** 12 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-106914  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/106914>  

---

PRESENTS

RECEIVED BY THE

ROYAL SOCIETY,

From November 1793 to July 1794;

WITH THE

NAMES OF THE DONORS.

1793.

PRESENTS.

Nov. 7. Nova Acta Academiae Scientiarum Imperialis Petropolitanae, Tomus VII. Petropoli, 1793. 4°
Commentationes Societatis Regiae Scientiarum Gottingensis ad A. 1791 & 1792. Gottingae, 1793. 4°
Transactions of the Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce, Vol. XI. London, 1793. 8°

The Morbid Anatomy of some of the most important parts of the human Body, by M. Bailie. London, 1793. 8°
On the Determination of the Orbits of Comets, by Sir H. Englefield. London, 1793. 4°
Biographia Britannica, Vol. V. London, 1793. fol.

A Sketch of a Plan to exterminate the casual Small-Pox from Great Britain, and to introduce general Inoculation, by J. Haygarth. London, 1793. 8°
A Treatise on the Structure, Economy, and Diseases of the Liver, by W. Saunders. London, 1793. 8°
Directions for making an universal Meridian Dial, by F. Wollaston. London, 1793. 4°
Practical Observations on the Operation for the Stone, by J. Earle. London, 1793. 8°
An Appendix to a Treatise on the Hydrocele, by J. Earle. London, 1793. 8°
14. Astronomical Observations made in the Voyages of Byron, Wallis, Carteret, and Cook, drawn up by W. Wales. London, 1788. 4°

DONORS.

The Imperial Academy of Sciences of Petersburg.
The Royal Society of Sciences at Gottingen.
The Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce.
Matthew Baillie, M.D. F.R.S.
Sir Henry Englefield, Bart. F.R.S.
The Rev. Andrew Kippis, D.D. F.R.S.
John Haygarth, M.B. F.R.S.
William Saunders, M.D. F.R.S.
The Rev. Francis Wollaston, LL.B. F.R.S.
James Earle, Esq. F.R.S.

The Commissioners of the Longitude.
PRESENTS.

Floræ Cantabrigiensis Supplementum tertium, auctore R. Relhan. Cantabrigiæ, 1793. 8°

Medical Facts and Observations, Vol. IV. London, 1793. 8°

21. Descriptio et adumbratio microscopico-analytica Muscorum frondosorum novorum dubiiisque vexatorum, auctore J. Hedwig, Vol. 3um. Lipsiae, 1792. fol.

Eclipsis Solis annularis fere centralis Varsavie, A. 1793, die 5 Sept. Mscr. fol. pat.

A Treatise upon Gravel, and upon Gout, by M. Forbes. London, 1793. 8°

The History of Rutherglen and East-Kilbride, by D. Ure. Glasgow, 1793. 8°

Dec. 12. Codex Th. Bezae Cantabrigiensis, Evangelia et Apostolorum Acta complectens; edidit T. Kipling. Tomi II. Cantabr. 1793. fol.

J. Dickson: fasciculus tertius plantarum cryptogamicarum Britanniae. Londini, 1793. 4°

The Meteorologist's Assistant in keeping a Diary of the Weather. London, 1793. fol.

Annonce de la découverte d'une Science qui sert de base et de clef à toutes les autres. 4°

A Sketch of a Tour on the Continent in the Years 1786 and 1787, by J. E. Smith. London, 1793, 3 Vols. 8°

1794.

Jan. 9. Commentarii de Rebus in Scientia naturali et Medicina gestis, Volumen XXXIV. et Decadis tertiae Index. Lipsiae, 1792-3. 8°

The Life of Thomas Ruddiman, by G. Chalmers. London, 1794. 8°

A Meteorological Journal of the Year 1793, kept in London by W. Bent. London. 8°

A Hindoo Quadrant.

Feb. 6. Original Letters from the late Edward Wortley Montagu, Esq. containing Meteorological Observations made at Rosetta, in Egypt, in the Year 1773.

Meteorological Journal kept at Churchill Factory in Hudson's Bay, from Sept. 6, 1792, to April 17, 1793. Mscr. fol.

13. Some Considerations concerning public Roads. London, 1734. 8°

El Eclipse de Sol observado en el Oceano, el 24 de Junio de 1778, par D. A. de Ulloa. Madrid, 1779. 4°

Ephemerides Astronomicæ anni 1793, ad meridianum Mediolanensem supputatae, ab A. de Cesaris. Mediolani, 1792. 8°

20. Meteorological Account of the Weather at Madras, from June 1, 1787, to Dec. 31, 1790. fol, obl.

DONORS.

The Rev. Richard Relhan, M. A. F. R. S.

Samuel Foart Simmons, M. D. F. R. S.

Professor Hedwig, F.R.S.

M. Bystrzycki, Astronomer to the King of Poland.

Mr. Murray Forbes.

The Rev. David Ure, M. A.

The University of Cambridge.

Mr. James Dickson.

The anonymous Author.

M. D'Eckhartshousen.

James Edward Smith, M. D. F. R. S.

Mr. Philip Hurlock, F. R. S.

George Chalmers, Esq., F. R. S.

Mr. W. Bent.

John Lloyd Williams, Esq.

William Seward, Esq., F. R. S.

Don Antonio de Ulloa, F. R. S.

The Astronomers of Milan.

Mr. Chamier, of Vizagapatam.
PRESENTS.

A Diary of the Thermometer kept at Muglatore, in the Year 1790. 4°

Meteorological Diary kept at Maddepollam. fol. obl.

March 6. A Translation of the Table of chemical Nomenclature proposed by de Guyton, Lavoisier, Berthollet, and de Fourcroy. London, 1794. 4°

20. Historia del nuevo Mundo, escribiala D. Juan B. Muñoz, Tomo I. Madrid, 1793. 4°

A Sermon preached at the Consecration of William Lord Bishop of St. David's, by C. P. Layard. London, 1794. 4°

27. Astronomisches Jahrbuch für das Jahr 1796, von J. E. Bode. Berlin, 1793, 8°

April 3. Collection of Engravings from ancient Vases, discovered in Sepulchres in the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies, now in the possession of Sir W. Hamilton, Vol. I. Naples, 1791. fol.

Theoria motus corporum solidorum seu rigidorum, auctore Leonh. Eulero. Rost. et Gryphisw. 1765. 4°

Medical Commentaries for the Year 1793, collected by A. Duncan. Edinburgh, 1794. 8°

Observations on the Disease of the Hip Joint, by E. Ford. London, 1794. 8°

Letters on the Culture of Potatoes from the Shoots, by W. Maunsell. Dublin, 1794. 8°

10. Flora Oxoniensis, auctore J. Sibthorp. Oxonii, 1794. 8°

May 1. Transactions of the Linnean Society, Vol. II. London, 1794. 4°

Mémoires de l'Académie Royale des Sciences et Belles Lettres, 1788 et 1789. Berlin, 1793. 4°

Sammlung der Deutschen Abhandlungen, welche in der Kön. Academie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin vorgelesen worden, in den Jahren 1788 und 1789. Berlin, 1793. 4°

Mémoire sur le Regne de Frédéric II. Roi de Prusse, lu dans l'Assemblée publique de l'Académie des Sciences de Berlin, le 27 Janv. 1793, par le Comte de Hertzberg. 8°

Discours qui a été prononcé par le Comte de Hertzberg, dans l'Assemblée publique de l'Académie des Sciences à Berlin, le 30 Janvier, 1794. 8°

Relation Historique de la Statue pédestre du Roi Frédéric II. qui a été érigée à Stettin le 10 Octobre, 1793. Berlin. 8°

Ueber die Bleyglasur unserer Töpferwaare, von G. A. Ebell. Hanover, 1794. 8°

Historia litteraria et critica Forcipum et Vectium obstetriciorum, auctore J. Mulder. Lugd. Bat. 1794. 8°

DONORS.

Mr. Chamier, of Vizagapatam.

George Pearson, M. D. F. R. S.

Don Juan Bautista Muñoz.

The Rev. Charles Peter Layard, D.D. F. R. S.

M. J. E. Bode, F. R. S.

Sir William Hamilton, K. B. F. R. S.

The Rev. Nevil Maskelyne, D.D. F. R. S. Astronomer Royal.

Andrew Duncan, M. D.

Mr. Edward Ford.

The Rev. William Maunsell, LL. D.

John Sibthorp, M. D. F. R. S.

The Linnean Society.

Comte de Hertzberg, F. R. S.
PRESENTS.

The Construction and Use of a Thermometer for shewing the Extremes of Temperature in the Atmosphere, during the Observer's absence, by James Six. Maidstone, 1794.

8°

J. Ingen-Housz Versuche mit Pflanzen, übersezt von J. A. Scherer, II. & III. Band. Wien, 1788, 1790.

8°

Medical Facts and Observations, Vol. V. London, 1794.

8°

Observations on human and on comparative Parturition, by R. Bland. London, 1794.

8°

A Treatise on the Conic Sections, by G. Walker. London, 1794.

4°

June 5. A Sermon preached on the Fast Day, Feb. 28, 1794, by W. Parker. London.

4°

The Speech of the Right Hon. John Hely Hutchinson, made in the House of Commons, June 26, 1793. Dublin, 1793.

8°

De Quadrante murali, quem speculae Mediolanensi construxit J. Ramsden, commentarius Angeli de Cesaris.

8°

Effemeridi Astronomiche per l'Anno 1775, calcolate pel Meridiano di Milano, dall' Ab. A. de Cesaris. Milano, 1774.

8°

Ephemerides Astronomicae Annorum 1776, 1777, 1780, 1781, 1784, 1785, 1786, supputatae Ab. A. de Cesaris.

8°

An Inquiry into the Laws of Falling Bodies, by R. Anstice. London, 1794.

8°

A Letter on the most effectual Means of preventing Sickness in his Majesty's Fleets, by W. Renwick. London, 1774.

8°

July 3. The Natural History of Aleppo, by A. Russell; the second Edition, enlarged by P. Russell, 2 Vols. London, 1794.

4°

Saggio della Scuola clinica nello spedale di Padova, di A. Comparetti. Padova, 1793.

8°

Riscontri Fisico-Botanici, di A. Comparetti. Padova, 1793.

8°

A Dissertation on Simple Fever, by G. Fordyce. London, 1794.

8°

DONORS.

George May, Esq.

John Ingen-Housz, M.D. F. R. S.

Samuel Foart Simmons, M. D. F. R. S.

R. Bland, M. D.

The Rev. G. Walker, F. R. S.

The Rev. William Parker, D. D. F. R. S.

William Seward, Esq. F. R. S.

Anthony Songa, Esq.

The Astronomers of Milan.

Mr. Robert Anstice.

Mr. William Renwick.

Patrick Russell, M. D. F. R. S.

Professor Comparetti, of Padua.

George Fordyce, M. D. F. R. S.
## INDEX

TO THE

PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS

FOR THE YEAR 1794.

| A | page |
|---|------|
| Air, on its resistance to light, | 86 |
| —— on its electricity, in different degrees of purity, | 267 |
| Aldebaran, remarks on an eclipse of, | 438 |
| Anderson, Dr. on a wax-like substance collected by him, at Madras, | 383 |
| Annuities, on finding their values, | 235 |
| Anspach, Margrave of, Extract of a paper sent by him, containing an account of some remarkable caves in the principality of Bayreuth, and of the fossil bones found therein, Observations on the fossil bones presented by him, | 402 |
| Archimedes, proof of a principle assumed by him, | 33 |
| Argand's lamp, on the quantity of oil consumed, and of light emitted, by it, | 98 |
| Atwood, George, Esq. Investigations, founded on the theory of motion, for determining the times of vibration of watch balances, | 119 |
INDEX.

B

Barker, Thomas, Esq. Abstract of a register of the barometer, thermometer, and rain, at Lyndon, in Rutland. 1793. 174
Barometer, Register of, at Lyndon, in Rutland. 174
Bayreuth, Account of some caves, and fossil bones, found in that principality. 402, 407
Bees wax, on the quantity of it consumed in the production of light. 101
—— experiments upon it. 398
Belts of Saturn, observations of. 28, 49
—— of Jupiter, remarks on. 30
Blumenbach, John Frederick, M.D. Observations on some Egyptian mummies opened in London. 177
Bones, fossil, account of some, found in the principality of Bayreuth. 402, 407
Buggle, Thomas. The latitudes and longitudes of several places in Denmark, calculated from the trigonometrical operations. 43

C

Candles, on the fluctuations of the light emitted by them. 100
Caves, account of some in the principality of Bayreuth. 402
Circle, Dr. Halley's quadrature of it improved. 217
Coccus, remarks on a species of. 383
Coloured Shadows, experiments upon. 107
Comet, account of the discovery of one. 1
Concave Eye glasses, trial of. 58
Contingent reversions, on the method of determining them. 223
Crystalline humour, observations on. 21, 201
Cuttle fish, remarks on its crystalline humour. 21

D

Dalmatia, remarks on the fossil bones found there. 412, 416
Denmark. The latitudes and longitudes of several places in that kingdom. 43
Doubler of electricity, experiments made with it. 266

E

Eclipse of the Sun, observations of. 39, 262
—— of the star Aldebaran, remarks on. 438
Egyptian mummies, observations on. 177
INDEX.

Egyptians, on their physiognomy, - 190
Electricity, doubler of, experiments made with it, - 266
Eye glasses, concave, trial of, - 58

F
Fatty substance, on the conversion of flesh into, - 169
Flame, on its transparency, - 104
Fordyce, George, M.D. Account of a new pendulum, - 2

G
Gibbes, George Smith, B.A. On the conversion of animal muscle into a substance much resembling spermaceti, - 169
Gibraltar, remarks on the fossil bones found there, - 412, 416
Gilpin, Mr. George. Tables for reducing the quantities by weight, in any mixture of pure spirit and water, to those by measure; and for determining the proportion, by measure, of each of the two substances, in such mixtures, - 275
Glass, on the loss of light in its passage through it, - 92

H
Halley, Dr. His quadrature of the circle improved, - 217
Hellins, The Rev. John. Dr. Halley's quadrature of the circle improved: being a transformation of his series for that purpose to others which converge by the powers of 80, - 217
Herschel, Miss Caroline. Account of the discovery of a comet, - 1
Herschel, William, LL.D. Observations of a quintuple belt on the planet Saturn, - 28
Account of some particulars observed during the late eclipse of the Sun, - 39
On the rotation of the planet Saturn upon its axis, - 48
Home, Everard, Esq. Some facts relative to the late Mr. John Hunter's preparation for the Croonian lecture, - 21
Hosack, David, M.D. Observations on vision, - 196
Humfries, Isaac, Esq. Account of a spontaneous inflammation, - 426
Hunter, John, Esq. Observations on the crystalline humour, - 23
Observations on the fossil bones presented to the Royal Society by his most serene Highness the Margrave of Anspach, - 407
| Topic                                                                 | Page |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------|------|
| **I**                                                                |      |
| Inflammation, spontaneous, account of one,                           | 426  |
| Insect, observations on one which secretes a sort of wax,             | 383  |
| Jupiter, remarks on that planet,                                     | 30   |
| **L**                                                                |      |
| Lac, white, observations and experiments on a substance so called,    | 383  |
| ———— on its sensible and other properties,                            | 385  |
| ———— experiments to discover its affinities and combinations,         | 387  |
| ———— experiments to decompound it by fire,                            | 390  |
| ———— experiments upon the liquid contained in it,                     | 393  |
| Lamps, on the quantities of oil consumed, and of light emitted by     |      |
| differently constructed ones,                                        | 98   |
| Latitudes, of several places in Denmark,                             | 43   |
| Lecture, Bakerian,                                                   | 2    |
| ———— Croonian, facts relative to the late Mr. John Hunter’s           | 21   |
| preparation for it,                                                  |      |
| Lever, on the fundamental property of,                               | 33   |
| Light, method of measuring the intensities of that emitted by lu-    |      |
| minous bodies,                                                       | 67   |
| ———— upon the resistance of the air to it,                            | 86   |
| ———— on the loss of it in its passage through glass,                  | 92   |
| ———— on the loss of it in its reflection from a plane glass mirror,   | 96   |
| ———— on the quantities of it emitted by lamps of different construc- |      |
| tions,                                                               | 98   |
| ———— on the quantities emitted by an Argand’s lamp, and by a         |      |
| common wax candle,                                                   | 100  |
| ———— on the fluctuations of that emitted by candles,                  | 100  |
| ———— on the quantities of different substances consumed in its pro-  |      |
| duction,                                                             | 101  |
| ———— appearance of, seen in the dark part of the moon,                | 429, 435 |
| Longitudes, of several places in Denmark,                            | 43   |
| Luminous bodies, method of measuring the light emitted by them,       | 67   |
| **M**                                                                |      |
| Maskelyne, Nevil, D.D. Remarks on an appearance of light, like a star,|      |
| seen lately in the dark part of the moon,                            | 435  |
| Mirror, on the loss of light in its reflection from one,              | 96   |
| Moon, remarks on the mountains in it,                                 | 263  |
| ———— appearance of light, seen in the dark part of it,                | 429, 435 |
INDEX.

Morgan, William, Esq. On the method of determining, from the real probabilities of life, the values of contingent reversions, in which three lives are involved in the survivorship, - 223

Mountains in the moon, remarks on, - 263

Mudge, Mr. remarks on his method of combining the action of spiral springs, - 136

Mummies, observations on some, opened in London, - 177

Muscle, animal, on its conversion into a substance much resembling spermaceti, - 169

Muscles of the eye, on their situation, structure, and action, - 207

O

Oil, on the quantities consumed by lamps of different constructions, - 98

— on the quantities of different kinds consumed in the production of light, - 101

P

Pearson, George, M.D. Observations and experiments on a wax-like substance, resembling the Pé-la of the Chinese, collected at Madras by Dr. Anderson, and called by him White Lac, - 383

Pé-la of the Chinese, observations on a wax-like substance resembling it, - 383

Pendulum, account of a new one, - 2

Photometer, description of an instrument so called, - 73

Physiognomy, of the Egyptians, remarks on, - 190

Presents received by the Royal Society, from November, 1793, to July, 1794, - 441

Q

Quadrature of the circle, Dr. Halley's, improved, - 217

R

Rain, register of, at Lyndon, in Rutland, - 174

Read, Mr. John. Experiments and observations made with the doubler of electricity, with a view to determine its real utility, in the investigation of the electricity of atmospheric air, in different degrees of purity, - 266

MDCCXCIV.
INDEX.

Reversions, contingent, on the method of determining, - 223
Ring of Saturn, observations on, - 53, 54, 57
Rumford, Count of. An account of a method of measuring the comparative intensities of the light emitted by luminous bodies, 67
An account of some experiments upon coloured shadows, - 107

S

Satellites of Jupiter, remarks on, - 30
Saturn, observations of a quintuple belt on, - 28
on the rotation of, upon its axis, - 48
observations upon its double ring, - 53, 54, 57
observations of its south pole, - 57
observation of its five old satellites, - 56
Schmeisser, Mr. John Godfrey. Account of a mineral substance, called Strontionite; in which are exhibited its external, physical, and chemical characters, - 418
Schroeter, John Jerome, Esq. Observation of the great eclipse of the sun, of September 5, 1793, - 262
Shadows, coloured, experiments upon, - 107
Spermaceti, on the conversion of animal muscle into a substance resembling it, - 169
Spirit and water, tables for reducing their quantities by weight, to measure; and for determining their proportions, - 275
Squinting, remarks upon, - 213
Stalactites, account of some large ones, - 405
Star, appearance like one, seen in the dark part of the moon, 429, 435
Stretton, Thomas. Account of an appearance of light, seen by him, in the dark part of the moon, - 435
Strontionite, account of a mineral substance, so called, - 418
Sun, account of some particulars observed during its late eclipse, observation of its great eclipse, September 5, 1793, - 262
Survivorship, observations on, - 223

T

Tables for reducing quantities by weight, of spirit and water, to measure; and for determining their proportion, - 275
Tallow, on the quantity of it consumed in the production of light, - 101
Thermometer, register of, at Lyndon, in Rutland, - 174
Thompson, Sir Benjamin. See Count of Rumford.
Transparency of flame, remarks on, - 104
INDEX.

V

Vibration of watch balances, investigations for determining the times of, - 119
Vince, the Rev. Samuel, A. M. Observations on the fundamental properties of the lever; with a proof of the principle assumed by Archimedes, in his demonstration, - 33
Vision, observations on, - 196

W

Watch balances, investigations for determining the times of their vibration, - 119
Wax-like substance, from Madras, observations and experiments upon, - 383
Weather of 1793, remarks on, - 175
Whitehurst, Mr. observations on an apparatus of his, - 15
Wilkins, William, Esq. An account of an appearance of light, like a star, seen in the dark part of the moon, on Friday the 7th of March, 1794, - 429
Woodman, Thomas B. Esq. Account of a spontaneous inflammation, - 426

Y

Young, Mr. Thomas, remarks on an opinion of his, - 201

From the Press of
W. BULMER & Co.
Cleveland-Row, St. James's.