# An Account of the Book

**Author(s):** Anonymous  
**Year:** 1714  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions (1683-1775)  
**Volume:** 29  
**Pages:** 53 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-103050  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/103050>  

---

II. An Account of the Book entituled Commercium Epistolicum Collinii & aliorum, De Analyti promota; published by order of the Royal-Society, in relation to the Dispute between Mr. Leibnitz and Dr. Keill, about the Right of Invention of the Method of Fluxions, by some call'd the Differential Method.

Several Accounts having been published abroad of this Commercium, all of them very imperfect: It has been thought fit to publish the Account which follows.

This Commercium is composed of several ancient Letters and Papers, put together in order of Time, and either copied or translated into Latin from such Originals as are described in the Title of every Letter and Paper; a numerous Committee of the Royal-Society being appointed to examine the Sincerity of the Originals, and compare therewith the Copies taken from them. It relates to a general Method of resolving finite Equations into infinite ones, and applying these Equations, both finite and infinite, to the Solution of Problems by the Method of Fluxions and Moments. We will first give an Account of that Part of the Method which consists in resolving finite Equations into infinite ones, and squaring curvilinear Figures thereby. By Infinite Equations are meant such as involve a Series of Terms converging or approaching the Truth nearer and nearer in infinitum, so as at length to differ from the Truth less than by any given Quantity, and if continued in infinitum, to leave no Difference.
Dr. Wallis in his Opus Arithmeticum published A.C. 1657: Cap. 33. Prop. 68. reduced the Fraction $\frac{1}{1-R}$ by perpetual Division into the Series $A + AR + AR^2 + AR^3 + \cdots$. Viscount Brounker squared the Hyperbola by this Series $\frac{1}{1 \times 2} + \frac{1}{3 \times 4} + \frac{1}{5 \times 6} + \frac{1}{7 \times 8} + \cdots$, that is by this, $1 - \frac{1}{2} + \frac{1}{3} - \frac{1}{4} + \frac{1}{5} - \frac{1}{6} + \frac{1}{7} - \frac{1}{8} + \cdots$ conjoining every two Terms into one. And the Quadrature was published in the Philosophical Transactions for April 1668.

Mr. Mercator soon after published a Demonstration of this Quadrature by the Division of Dr. Wallis; and soon after that Mr. James Gregory published a Geometrical Demonstration thereof. And these Books were a few Months after sent by Mr. John Collins to Dr. Barrow at Cambridge, and by Dr. Barrow communicated to Mr. Newton (now Sir Isaac Newton) in June 1669. Whereupon Dr Barrow mutually sent to Mr. Collins a Tract of Mr. Newton's entituled Analysis per equationes numero terminorum infinitas. And this is the first Piece published in the Commercium, and contains a general Method of doing in all Figures, what my Lord Brounker and Mr. Mercator did in the Hyperbola alone. Mr. Mercator lived above ten Years longer without proceeding further than to the single Quadrature of the Hyperbola. The Progress made by Mr. Newton shews that he wanted not Mr. Mercator's Assistance. However, for avoiding Disputes, he supposes that my Lord Brounker invented, and Mr. Mercator demonstrated, the Series for the Hyperbola some Years before they published it, and, by consequence, before he found his general Method.

The aforesaid Treatise of Analysis Mr. Newton, in his Letter to Mr. Oldenburgh, dated Octob. 24. 1676, mentions in the following Manner. Eo ipso tempore quo Mercatoris Logarithmotechnia prodiit, communicatum est per amicum D. Barrow (tunc Matheseos Professorem Cantab.) cum D. Collinio Compendium quoddam harum Serierum, in quo significaveram Areas & Longitudines Curvarum omnium, & Solidorum superficies & contenta ex datis.
datis rectis; & vice versa ex his datis rectas determinari posse:
& methodum indicatam illustraveram diversis seriebus.

Mr. Collins in the Years 1669, 1670, 1671 and 1672 gave notice of this Compendium to Mr. James Gregory in Scotland,
Mr. Bertet and Mr. Vernon then at Paris, Mr. Alphonsus Borelli in Italy, and Mr. Strode, Mr. Townsend, Mr. Oldenburgh,
Mr. Dary and others in England, as appears by his Letters.
And Mr. Oldenburg in a Letter, dated Sept. 14. 1669. and entered in the Letter-Book of the Royal-Society, gave notice of it to Mr. Francis Slusius at Liege, and cited several Sentences out of it. And particularly Mr. Collins in a Letter to Mr. James Gregory dated Novemb. 25. 1669. spake thus of the Method contained in it. Barrovius Provinciae suam publicè praelegendi remisit cuidam nomine Newtono Cantabrigiensi, cujus tanquam viri acutissimo ingenio praditi in Praefatione Praelectionum Opticarum, meminit: quippe antequam ederetur Mercatoris Logarithmotechnia, eandem methodum adinvenerat, eamque ad omnes Curvas generaliter & ad Circulum diversimode applicarat.

And in a Letter to Mr. David Gregory dated August 11. 1676. he mentions it in this manner. Paucos post menses quam editi sunt hi Libri [viz. Mercatoris Logarithmotechnia & Exercitationes Geometricæ Gregorii] misi sunt ad Barrovium Cantabrigiæ. Ille autem responsum dedit hanc infinitarum Serierum Doctrinam à Newtono biennium ante excogitatam fuisse quam ederetur Mercatoris Logarithmotechnia & generaliter omnibus figuris applicatam, simulque transmisit D. Newtoni opus manuscriptum.

The last of the said two Books came out towards the End of the Year 1668, and Dr. Barrow sent the said Compendium to Mr. Collins in July following, as appears by three of Dr. Barrow's Letters. And in a Letter to Mr. Strode, dated July 26. 1672, Mr. Collins wrote thus of it. Exemplar ejus [Logarithmotechnia] misi Barrovio Cantabrigiam, qui quasdam Newtoni chartas extemplo remisit: E quibus & aliis que prius ab authore cum Barrovio communicata fuerant, patet illam methodum à dicto Newtono aliquot annis antea excogitatam & modo univer-

F f 2
sali applicatam fuisse: Ita ut ejus ope, in quavis Figura Curvilinea proposta, qua una vel pluribus proprietatibus definitur, Quadratura vel Area dictæ figūrae, accurata si possibile sit, sin minus infinitè verò propinqua, Evolutio vel longitudo Lineæ Curve, Centrum gravitatis figūrae, Solida ejus rotattione genita & corum superficies; sine alla radicum extractione obtineri queant. Postquam intellecterat D. Gregorius hanc methodum à D. Mercatore in Logarithmotechnia usurpat m & Hyperbola quadranda exhibitam, quamque adauxerat ipse Gregorius, jam universalem redditam esse, omnibusque figuris applicatam; aci studio eandem acquisivit multumque in ea enodanda defudavit. Uterque D. Newtonus & Gregorius in animo habet hanc methodum exornare: D. Gregorius autem D. Newtonum primum ejus inventorem anticipare haud integrum dicit. And in another Letter written to Mr. Oldenburgh to be communicated to Mr. Leibnitz, and dated June 14 1676.

Mr. Collins addis: Hujus autem methodi ea est praestantia ut cum tam late pateat ad nullam bareat difficultatem. Gregorium autem aliosque in ea fuisse opinione arbitror, ut quicquid uspiam antea de hac re innotuit, quasi dubia diluculi lux fuit si cum meridiana claritate conferatur.

This Tract was first printed by Mr. William Jones, being found by him among the Papers and in the Hand-writing of Mr. John Collins, and collated with the Original which he afterwards borrowed of Mr. Newton. It contains the above-mention'd general Method of Analysis, teaching how to resolve finite Equations into infinite ones, and how by the method of Moments to apply Equations both finite and infinite to the Solution of all Problems. It begins where Dr. Wallis left off, and founds the method of Quadratures upon three Rules.

Dr. Wallis published his Arithmetica infinitorum in the Year 1655, and by the 59th Proposition of that Book, if the Abscissa of any curvilinear Figure be called $x$, and $m$ and $n$ be Numbers, and the Ordinates erected at right Angles be $\frac{x^m}{n}$, the Area of the Figure shall be $\frac{n}{m+n} \times \frac{m+n}{n}$. And this is assumed
by Mr. Newton as the first Rule upon which he founds his Quadrature of Curves. Dr. Wallis demonstrated this Proposition by Steps in many particular Propositions, and then collected all the Propositions into One by a Table of the Cases. Mr. Newton reduced all the Cases into One, by a Dignity with an indefinite Index, and at the End of his Compendium demonstrated it at once by his method of Moments, he being the first who introduced indefinite Indices of Dignities into the Operations of Analysis.

By the 108th Proposition of the said Arithmetica Infinitorum, and by several other Propositions which follow it; if the Ordinate be composed of two or more Ordinates taken with their Signes \(+\) and \(-\), the Area shall be compos'd of two or more Areas taken with their Signes \(+\) and \(-\) respectively. And this is assumed by Mr. Newton as the second Rule upon which he founds his Method of Quadratures.

And the third Rule is to reduce Fractions and Radicals, and the affected Roots of Equations into converging Series, when the Quadrature does not otherwise succeed; and by the first and second Rules to square the Figures, whose Ordinates are the single Terms of the Series. Mr. Newton, in his Letter to Mr. Oldenburgh dated June 13. 1676. and communicated to Mr. Leibnitz, taught how to reduce any Dignity of any Binominal into a converging Series, and how by that Series to square the Curve, whose Ordinate is that Dignity. And being desired by Mr. Leibnitz to explain the Original of this Theoreme, he replied in his Letter dated Octob. 24. 1676, that a little before the Plague (which raged in London in the Year 1665) upon reading the Arithmetica Infinitorum of Dr. Wallis, and considering how to interpole the Series \(x\), \(x - \frac{1}{3} x^3\), \(x - \frac{2}{3} x^3 + \frac{1}{5} x^5\), \(x - \frac{3}{5} x^3 + \frac{3}{5} x^5 - \frac{1}{7} x^7\), &c., he found the Area of a Circle to be \(x - \frac{1}{3} x^3 - \frac{1}{5} x^5 - \frac{1}{7} x^7 - \frac{1}{9} x^9\), &c. And by pursuing the Method of Interpolati-
on he found the Theoreme abovemention'd, and by means of this Theoreme he found the Reduction of Fractions and Surds into converging Series, by Division and Extraction of Roots; and then proceeded to the Extraction of affected Roots. And these Reductions are his third Rule.

When Mr. Newton had in this Compendium explained these three Rules, and illustrated them with various Examples, he laid down the Idea of deducing the Area from the Ordinate, by considering the Area as a Quantity, growing or increasing by continual Flux, in proportion to the Length of the Ordinate, supposing the Abscissa to increase uniformly in proportion to Time. And from the Moments of Time he gave the Name of Moments to the momentaneous Increases, or infinitely small Parts of the Abscissa and Area, generated in Moments of Time. The Moment of a Line he called a Point, in the Sense of Cavallerius, tho' it be not a geometrical Point, but a Line infinitely short, and the Moment of an Area or Superficies he called a Line, in the Sense of Cavallerius, tho' it be not a geometrical Line, but a Superficies infinitely narrow. And when he consider'd the Ordinate as the Moment of the Area, he understood by it the Rectangles under the geometrical Ordinate and a Moment of the Abscissa, tho' that Moment be not always expressed. Sit ABD, saith he, Curva quavis, & AHKB rectangulum cujus latus AH vel KB est unitas. Et cogita rectam DBK uniformiter ab AH motam areas ABD & AK describere; & quod [recta] BK (1) fit momentum quo [area] AK (x), & [recta] BD (y) momentum quo [area curvilinea] ABD gradatim augetur; & quod ex momento BD perpetim dato possis, per praecedentes [tres] Regulas, aream ABD ipso descriptam investigare, hinc cum area AK (x) momento i descripta conferre. This is his Idea of the Work in squaring of Curves, and how he applies this to other Problems, he expresses in the next Words. Jam qua ratione, saith he, superficies ABD ex momento suo perpetim
petim dato per præcedentes [tres] Regulas elicitur, eadem qualitatis alia quantitas ex momento suo sic dato elicetur. Exemplo res fiet clarior. And after some Examples he adds his Method of Regression from the Area, Arc, or solid Content, to the Abscissa; and shews how the same Method extends to Mechanical Curve, for determining their Ordinates, Tangents, Areas, Lengths, &c. And that by assuming any Equation expressing the Relation between the Area and Abscissa of a Curve, you may find the Ordinate by this Method. And this is the Foundation of the Method of Fluxions and Moments, which Mr. Newton in his Letter dated Octob. 24, 1676 comprehended in this Sentence. Data aequatione quotcumque fluentes quantitates involvente, injenire Fluxiones; & vice versa.

In this Compendium Mr. Newton represents the uniform Fluxion of Time, or of any Exponent of Time by an Unit; the Moment of Time or of its Exponent by the Letter o; the Fluxions of other Quantities by any other Symbols; the Moments of those Quantities by the Rectangles under those Symbols and the Letter o; and the Area of a Curve by the Ordinate inclosed in a Square, the Area being put for a Fluent and the Ordinate for its Fluxion. When he is demonstrating any Proposition he uses the Letter o for a finite Moment of Time, or of its Exponent, or of any Quantity flowing uniformly, and performs the whole Calculation by the Geometry of the Ancients in finite Figures or Schemes without any Approximation: and so soon as the Calculation is at an End, and the Equation is reduced, he supposes that the Moment o decreases in infinitum and vanishes. But when he is not demonstrating but only investigating a Proposition, for making Dispatch he supposes the Moment o to be infinitely little, and forbears to write it down, and uses all manner of Approximations which he conceives will produce no Error in the Conclusion. An Example of the first kind you have in the End of this Compendium, in demonstrating the first of the three Rules laid down in the Beginning of the Book.
Examples of the second kind you have in the same Compendium, in finding the Length of Curve Lines p. 15. and in finding the Ordinates, Areas and Lengths of Mechanical Curves p. 18. 19. And he tells you, that by the same Method, Tangents may be drawn to mechanical Curves p. 19. And in his Letter of Decemb. 10. 1672. he adds, that Problems about the Curvature of Curves Geometrical or Mechanical are resolv'd by the same Method. Whence its manifest, that he had then extended the Method to the second and third Moments. For when the Areas of Curves are considered as Fluents (as is usual in this Analysis) the Ordinates express the first Fluxions, the Tangents are given by the second Fluxions, and the Curvatures by the third. And even in this Analysis p. 16. where Mr. Newton saith, Momentum est superficies cum de solidis, & Linea cum de superficiebus, & Punctum cum de lineis agitur, it is all one as if he had said, that when Solids are considered as Fluents, their Moments are Superficies, and the Moments of those Moments (or second Moments) are Lines, and the Moments of those Moments (or third Moments) are Points, in the Sense of Cavallerius. And in his Principia Philosophiae, where he frequently considers Lines as Fluents described by Points, whose Velocities increase or decrease, the Velocities are the first Fluxions, and their Increase the second. And the Probleme, Data aquatione fluentes quantitates involvente fluxiones invenire & vice versa, extends to all the Fluxions, as is manifest by the Examples of the Solution thereof, published by Dr. Wallis Tom. 2. p 391, 392, 396. And in Lib. II. Princip. Prop. xiv. he calls the second Difference the Difference of Moments.

Now that you may know what kind of Calculation Mr. Newton used in, or before the Year 1669. when he wrote this Compendium of his Analysis, I will here set down his Demonstration of the first Rule abovementioned. Sit Curve
Sit Curve alicujus AD & Basis AB = x, perpendiculariter applicata BD = y, & area ABD = z, ut prius. Item sit Bβ = o, BK = v, & Rectangulum BβHK (ov) equale spatio Bβ & D. Est ergo Aβ = x + o, & Aδβ = z + ov, His pramissis, ex relatione inter x & z ad arbitrium assumpta, quero y ut sequitur.

Pro lubitu sumatur [xquatio] \( \frac{2}{3} x^{\frac{3}{2}} = z \), sive \( \frac{2}{3} x^{\frac{1}{2}} = zz \). Tum \( x + o(A\beta) \) pro x, & \( z + ov(A\delta\beta) \) pro z substitutis, prodibit \( \frac{2}{3} in x^{\frac{3}{2}} + 3 x^{\frac{1}{2}} o + 3 x o^2 + o^3 = (ex natura Curve) z^2 + 2 zov + ov^2 \). Et sublatis \( \frac{2}{3} x^{\frac{3}{2}} \) & \( zz \) aequalibus, reliquisque per o divisis, restat \( \frac{2}{3} in 3 x^{\frac{3}{2}} + 3 xo + o^2 = 2 zv + ov^2 \). Si jam supponamus Bβ in infinitum diminui & evanescere, sive o esse nihil, erunt v & y aequales, & termini per o multiplicati evanescent; ideoque restabit \( \frac{2}{3} \times 3 x^{\frac{3}{2}} = 2 zv \), sive \( \frac{2}{3} x^{\frac{3}{2}} (= zy) = \frac{2}{3} x^{\frac{3}{2}} y \), sive \( x^{\frac{3}{2}} (= \frac{x^2}{x^{\frac{1}{2}}}) = y \). Quare e contra, si \( x^{\frac{3}{2}} = y \), erit \( \frac{2}{3} x^{\frac{3}{2}} = z \).

Vel generaliter, Si \( \frac{n}{m+n} \times ax^{\frac{m+n}{n}} = z \); sive ponendo \( \frac{na}{m+n} = c \), & m + n = p, Si \( cx^n = z \), sive \( cx^p = zn \): Tum x + o pro x, & \( z + ov \) sive (quod perinde est) \( z + oy \) pro z substitutis, prodit \( cn \) in \( xp + px^{p-1} \) &c. = \( zn + noyz^{n-1} \) &c. reliquis necem [Sericum] terminis, qui tandem evanescerent, omissis. Jam sublatis \( cnxp \) & \( zn \) aequalibus, reliquisque per o divisis, restat \( cnpx^{p-1} = nyz^{n-1} (= \frac{nyz^n}{z} = \frac{nycnxp}{cx^n}) \) sive dividendo per \( cnxp \), erit \( px^{p-1} = \frac{ny}{cx^n} \) sive \( p cx^{p-n} = ny \); vel restituendo \( \frac{na}{m+n} \) pro c & m + n pro p, hoc est m pro p - n, & na
propc, fit ax^{\frac{m}{n}} = y. Quare e contra, si ax^{\frac{m}{n}} = y erit \frac{n}{m+n} ax^{\frac{m+n}{n}} = z

Q. E. D.

By the same way of working the second Rule may be also demonstrated. And if any Equation whatever be assumed expressing the Relation between the Abscissa and Area of a Curve, the Ordinate may be found in the same manner, as is mentioned in the next Words of the Analysis. And if this Ordinate drawn into an Unit be put for the Area of a new Curve, the Ordinate of this new Curve may be found by the same Method: And so on perpetually. And these Ordinates represent the first, second, third, fourth and following Fluxions of the first Area.

This was Mr. Newton's Way of working in those Days, when he wrote this Compendium of his Analysis. And the same Way of working he used in his Book of Quadratures, and still uses to this Day.

Among the Examples with which he illustrates the Method of Series and Moments set down in this Compendium, are these. Let the Radius of a Circle be \( r \), and the Arc \( z \), and the Sine \( x \), the Equations for finding the Arc whose Sine is given, and the Sine whose Arc is given, will be

\[
z = x + \frac{1}{6}x^3 + \frac{3}{40}x^5 + \frac{5}{112}x^7 + \frac{35}{3840}x^9 + &c.
\]

\[
x = z - \frac{1}{6}z^3 + \frac{1}{12}z^5 - \frac{1}{5040}z^7 + \frac{1}{362880}z^9 - &c.
\]

Mr. Collins gave Mr. Gregory notice of this Method in Autumn 1669, and Mr. Gregory, by the Help of one of Mr. Newton's Series, after a Year's Study, found the Method in December 1670; and two Months after, in a Letter dated Feb. 15. 1671. sent several Theorems, found thereby, to Mr. Collins, with leave to communicate them freely. And Mr. Collins was very free in communicating what he had received both from Mr. Newton and from Mr. Gregory, as appears by his Letters printed in the Commercium. Amongst the Series which Mr Gregory sent in the said Letter, were these
these two. Let the Radius of a Circle be \( r \), the Arc \( a \), and the Tangent \( t \), the Equations for finding the Arc whose Tangent is given, and the Tangent whose Arc is given, will be these.

\[
a = t - \frac{13}{3r^2} + \frac{56}{5r^4} - \frac{77}{7r^6} + \frac{19}{9r^8} + \ldots
\]

\[
t = a + \frac{a^3}{3r^2} + \frac{2a^5}{15r^4} + \frac{1747}{315r^6} + \frac{6149}{2835r^8} + \ldots
\]

In this Year (1671) Mr. Leibnitz published two Tracts at London, the One dedicated to the Royal-Society, the Other dedicated to the Academy of Sciences at Paris; and in the Dedication of the First he mentioned his Correspondence with Mr. Oldenburgh.

In February 1673 meeting Dr. Pell at Mr. Boyle's, he pretended to the differential Method of Mouton. And notwithstanding that he was shewn by Dr. Pell that it was Mouton's Method, he persisted in maintaining it to be his own Invention, by reason that he had found it himself without knowing what Mouton had done before, and had much improved it.

When one of Mr. Newton's Series was sent to Mr. Gregory, he tried to deduce it from his own Series combined together, as he mentions in his Letter dated December 19, 1670. And by some such Method Mr. Leibnitz, before he left London, seems to have found the Sum of a Series of Fractions decreasing in Infinitum, whose Numerator is a given Number and Denominators are triangular or pyramidal or triangulo-triangular Numbers, &c. See the Mystery! From the Series

\[
\frac{1}{1} + \frac{1}{2} + \frac{1}{3} + \frac{1}{4} + \frac{1}{5} + \ldots
\]

subduct all the Terms but the first (\( \text{viz. } \frac{1}{1} + \frac{1}{3} + \frac{1}{4} + \frac{1}{5} + \ldots \)) and there will remain

\[
1 = 1 - \frac{1}{2} + \frac{1}{3} - \frac{1}{4} + \frac{1}{5} - \frac{1}{6} + \ldots
\]

And from this Series take all the Terms but the first, and there will remain

\[
\frac{1}{2} = \frac{1}{1 \times 2} + \frac{1}{2 \times 3} + \frac{1}{3 \times 4} + \frac{1}{4 \times 5} + \ldots
\]

And from the first Series take all the Terms but the two first, and there will remain

\[
\frac{1}{2} = \frac{1}{1 \times 3} + \frac{1}{2 \times 4} + \frac{1}{3 \times 5} + \frac{1}{4 \times 6} + \ldots
\]
In the End of February or beginning of March 1673, Mr. Leibnitz went from London to Paris, and continuing his Correspondence with Mr Oldenburg and Mr. Collin, wrote in July 1674, that he had a wonderful Theoreme, which gave the Area of a Circle or any Sector thereof exactly in a Series of rational Numbers; and in October following, that he had found the Circumference of a Circle in a Series of very simple Numbers, and that by the same Method (so he calls the said Theoreme) any Arc whose Sine was given might be found in a like Series, though the Proportion to the whole Circumference be not known. His Theoreme therefore was for finding any Sector or Arc whose Sine was given. If the Proportion of the Arc to the whole Circumference was not known, the Theoreme or Method gave him only the Arc; if it was known it gave him also the whole Circumference: and therefore it was the first of Mr. Newton's two Theoremes above-mention'd. But the Demonstration of this Theoreme Mr Leibnitz wanted. For in his Letter of May 12, 1676, he desired Mr. Oldenburgh to procure the Demonstration from Mr Collins, meaning the Method by which Mr. Newton had invented it.

In a Letter compos'd by Mr. Collins and dated April 15, 1675, Mr. Oldenburgh sent to Mr. Leibnitz Eight of Mr. Newton's and Mr. Gregory's Series, amongst which were Mr. Newton's two Series above-mention'd for finding the Arc whose Sine is given, and the Sine whose Arc is given; and Mr. Gregory's two Series above mentioned for finding the Arc whose Tangent is given, and the Tangent whose Arc is given. And Mr. Leibnitz in his Answer, dated May 20, 1675, acknowledged the Receipt of this Letter in these Words.

Literas tuas multa fruge Algebraica refertas accepi, pro quibus tibi & doctissimo Collinio gratias ago. Cum nunc prater ordinari-as curas Mechanicis imprimis negotiis distrahar, non ponis examinare Series quas misisti ac cum meis comparare. Ubi fecero perscribam tibi sententiam meam: nam aliquot jam anni sunt quod inveni meas via quadam sic satisingulari.
But yet Mr. Leibnitz never took any further notice of his having received these Series, nor how his own differed from them, nor ever produced any other Series then those which he received from Mr. Oldenburg, or numeral Series deduced from them in particular Cases. And what he did with Mr. Gregory's Series for finding the Arc whose Tangent is given, he has told us in the Acta Eruditorum mensis Aprilis 1691. pag. 178. Jam anno 1675, saith he, compositum habebam opusculum Quadrature Arithmetica ab amicis ab illo tempore lectionem, &c. By a Theoreme for transmuting of Figures, like those of Dr. Barrow and Mr. Gregory, he had now found a Demonstration of this Series, and this was the Subject of his Opusculum. But he still wanted a Demonstration of the rest: and meeting with a Pretence to ask for what he wanted, he wrote to Mr. Oldenburg the following Letter, dated at Paris May 12. 1676.

Cum Georgius Mohr Danus nobis attulerit communicatam sibi à Doctissimo Collinio vestro expressionem rationis inter arcum & sinum per infinitas Series sequentes; posito sinu x, arcu z, radio r,

\[ z = x + \frac{1}{3}x^3 + \frac{2}{45}x^5 + \frac{1}{11}x^7 + \frac{3}{115}x^9 + \ldots \]

\[ x = z - \frac{1}{3}z^3 + \frac{1}{15}z^5 - \frac{1}{55}z^7 + \frac{1}{330}z^9 - \ldots \]

Hac, INQUAM, cum nobis attulerit ille, que mihi valde ingeniosa videntur, & posterior imprimis Series elegantiam quan- dam singularem habeat: ideo rem gratam mihi feceris, Vir clarissime, si demonstrationem transmisseris. Habebis vicissim me ab his longe diversa circa hanc rem meditata, de quibus jam aliquot abhinc annis ad te perscripsisse credo, demonstratione tamen non addita, quam nunc polo. Oro ut Clarissimo Collinio multam a me salutem dicas: is facile tibi materiam suppeditabit satisfaciendi desiderio meo. Here, by the Word INQUAM, one would think that he had never seen these two Series before, and that his diversa circa hanc rem meditata were something else than one of the Series which he had received from Mr.
Mr. Oldenburgh the Year before, and a Demonstration thereof which he was now polishing, to make the Present an acceptable Recompence for Mr. Newton's Method.

Upon the Receipt of this Letter Mr. Oldenburg and Mr. Collins wrote pressingly to Mr. Newton, desiring that he himself would describe his own Method, to be communicated to Mr. Leibnitz. Whereupon Mr. Newton wrote his Letter, dated June 13, 1676, describing therein the Method of Series, as he had done before in the Compendium above-mentioned; but with this Difference: Here he described at large the Reduction of the Dignity of a Binomial into a Series, and only touched upon the Reduction by Division and Extraction of affected Roots: There he described at large the Reduction of Fractions and Radicals into Series by Division and Extraction of Roots, and only set down the two first Terms of the Series into which the Dignity of a Binomial might be reduced. And among the Examples in this Letter, there were Series for finding the Number whose Logarithm is given, and for finding the Versed Sine whose Arc is given: This Letter was sent to Paris, June 26, 1676, together with a MS. drawn up by Mr. Collins, containing Extracts of Mr. James Gregory's Letters.

For Mr. Gregory died near the End of the Year 1675; and Mr. Collins, at the Request of Mr. Leibnitz and some other of the Academy of Sciences, drew up Extracts of his Letters, and the Collection is still extant in the Hand Writing of Mr. Collins with this Title; Extracts of Mr. Gregory's Letters, to be lent to Mr. Leibnitz to peruse, who is desired to return the same to you. And that they were sent is affirmed by Mr. Collins in his Letter to Mr. David Gregory the Brother of the Deceas'd, dated August 11, 1676, and appears further by the Answers of Mr. Leibnitz and Mr. Tschurnhause concerning them.

The Answer of Mr. Leibnitz directed to Mr. Oldenburgh and dated August 27, 1676, begins thus; Literae tuae die Julii 26. date plura ac memorabiliora circa rem Analyticam continent quam
multa volumina spissa de his rebus edita. Quare tibi pariter ac clarissimis viris Newtono ac Collinio gratias ago, qui nos participes tot meditationum egregiarum esse voluistis. And towards the End of the Letter, after he had done with the Contents of Mr. Newton's Letter, he proceeds thus. Ad alia tuarum Litterarum venio qua doctissimus Collinius communicare gravatus non est. Vellem adiecisset appropinquationis Gregorianæ linearis demonstrationem. Fuit enim his certe studiis promovendis aptissimus.

And the Answer of Mr. Tschurnhause, dated Sept. 1. 1676, after he had done with Mr. Newton's Letter about Series, concludes thus. Similia porro qua in hac re praestitit eximius ille Geometra Gregorius memoranda certe sunt. Et quidem optimè fama ipsius consulturi, qui ipsius reliæ Manuscripta luci publicæ ut exponantur operam navabunt. In the first Part of this Letter, where Mr. Tschurnhause speaks of Mr. Newton's Series, he saith that he looked over them cursorily, to see if he could find the Series of Mr. Leibnitz for squaring the Circle or Hyperbola. If he had searched for it in the Extracts of Gregory's Letters he might have found it in the Letter of Febr. 15. 1671. above-mentioned. For the MS. of those Extracts with that Letter therein is still extant in the Hand-Writing of Mr. Collins.

And tho' Mr. Leibnitz had now received this Series twice from Mr. Oldenburgh, yet in his Letter of August. 27. 1676. he sent it back to him by way of Recompence for Mr. Newton's Method, pretending that he had communicated it to his Friends at Paris three Years before or above; that is, two Years before he received it in Mr. Oldenburgh's Letter of April 15. 1675; at which Time he did not know it to be his own, as appears by his Answer of May 20. 1675 above-mentioned. He might receive this Series at London, and communicate it to his Friends at Paris above three Years before he sent it back to Mr. Oldenburg: but it doth not appear that he had the Demonstration thereof so early. When he found the Demonstration, then he compos'd it in his Opusculum, and communicated that also to his Friends; and he himself has
told us that this was in the Year 1675. However, it lies upon him to prove that he had this Series before he received it from Mr. Oldenburgh. For in his Answer to Mr. Oldenburgh he did not know any of the Series then sent him to be his own; and concealed from the Gentlemen at Paris his having received it from Mr. Oldenburgh with several other Series, and his having seen a Copy of the Letter in which Mr. Gregory had sent it to Mr. Collins in the Beginning of the Year 1671.

In the same Letter of August 27, 1676, after Mr. Leibnitz had described his Quadrature of the Circle and Equilateral Hyperbola, he added: Vicissim ex seriebus regressuum pro Hyperbola hanc inveni. Si sit numerus aliquis unitate minor \(1 - m\), ejusque logarithmus Hyperbolicus \(l\). Erit \(m = \frac{1}{1} - \frac{1^2}{1 \times 2} + \frac{1^3}{1 \times 2 \times 3} - \frac{1^4}{1 \times 2 \times 3 \times 4} + \ldots\) &c. Si numerus sit major unitate, ut \(1 + n\), tunc pro eo inveniendo mihi etiam prodit Regula qua in Newtoni Epistola expressa est: scilicet erit \(n = \frac{1}{1} + \frac{1^2}{1 \times 2} + \frac{1^3}{1 \times 2 \times 3} + \frac{1^4}{1 \times 2 \times 3 \times 4} + \ldots\) &c. Quod regressum ex arcubus attinet, incideram ego directe in Regulam qua ex dato arcu sinum complements exhibet. Nempe sinus complements \(= 1 - \frac{a^2}{1 \times 2} + \frac{a^4}{1 \times 2 \times 3 \times 4} - \ldots\) &c. Sed postea quoque deprehendi ex ea illam nobis communicatam pro inventendo sinu recto, qui est \(a = \frac{a^3}{1 \times 3} + \frac{a^5}{1 \times 2 \times 3 \times 4 \times 5} - \ldots\) &c., posse demonstrari. Thus Mr. Leibnitz put in his Claim for the Co-invention of these four Series, tho' the Method of finding them was sent him at his own Request, and he did not yet understand it. For in this same Letter of August 27, 1676, he desired Mr. Newton to explain it further. His Words are. Sed desideraverim ut Clarissimus Newtonus nonnulla quoque amplius explicet; ut originem Theorematis quod initio ponit: Item modum quo quantitates \(p, q, r, s\) in suis Operationibus invenit: Ac denique quomodo in Methodo regressuum se gerat, ut cum ex Logarithmo quod Numerum. Neque enim explicat quomodo id ex methodo sua derivetur. He pretended to have found two Series for the Number whose Logarithm was given, and yet in the same Letter desired
fired Mr. Newton to explain to him the Method of finding those very two Series.

When Mr. Newton had received this Letter, he wrote back that all the said four Series had been communicated by him to Mr. Leibnitz; the two first being one and the same Series in which the Letter \( l \) was put for the Logarithm with its Sign \( + \) or \( - \); and the third being the Excels of the Radius above the versed Sine, for which a Series had been sent to him. Whereupon Mr. Leibnitz desisted from his Claim. Mr. Newton also in the same Letter dated Octob. 24. 1676. further explained his Methods of Regression, as Mr. Leibnitz had desired. And Mr. Leibnitz in his Letter of June 21. 1677. desired a further Explication: but soon after, upon reading Mr. Newton's Letter a second time, wrote back July 12. 1677. that he now understood what he wanted; and found by his old Papers that he had formerly used one of Mr. Newton's Methods of Regression, but in the Example which he had then by chance made use of, there being produced nothing elegant, he had, out of his usual Impatience, neglected to use it any further. He had therefore several direct Series, and by consequence a Method of finding them, before he invented and forgot the inverse Method. And if he had searched his old Papers diligently, he might have found this Method also there; but having forgot his own Methods he wrote for Mr. Newton's.

When Mr. Newton in his Letter dated June 13. 1676. had explained his Method of Series, he added: *Ex his videre est quantum fines Analyseos per hujusmodi infinitas aquationes ampliantur: quippe que earum beneficio ad omnia pene dixerim problemata (si numeralia Diophanti & similia excipias) sese extendit. Non tamen omnino universalis evadit, nisi per ulteriores quasdam Methodos cliendi Series infinitas. Sunt enim quaedam Problema-ta in quibus non licet ad Series infinitas per Divisionem vel Extra-ctionem radicum simplicium affectarumve pervenire. Sed quomodo in istis casibus procedendum sit jam non vacat dicere; ut neque alia quaedam tradere, qua circa Reductionem infinitarum Serierum*
in finitas, ubi rel natura tulerit, excogitavi. Nam parcius scribo,
quod ha speculationes diu mihi fastidio esse caeperunt; adeo ut ab
isdem jam per quinque fere annos abstinuerim. To this
Mr. Leibnitz in his Letter of August 27. 676. answered:
Quod dicere videbant plerasque difficulitates (exceptis Problemati-
bus Diophantæis) ad series Infinitas reduci; id mihi non videtur.
Sunt enim multa usque adeo mira & implexa ut neque ab equationi-
bus pendent neque ex Quadraturis. Qualia sunt (ex multis aliis)
Problemata methodi Tangentium inversæ. And Mr. Newton in
his Letter of Octob. 24. 1676, replied: Ubi dixi omnia pene
Problemata solubilia existere; volui de his praestim intelligi circa
qua Mathematici se haætænus occuparunt vel saltem in quibus Ratio-
cinia Mathematica locum aliquem obtinere possint. Nam alia sane
adeo perplexis conditionibus implicata excogitare liceat, ut non satis
comprehendere valcamus: & multo minus tantarum computationum
onus sustinere quod ista requirerent. Attamen ne nimium dixisse
videar, inversa de Tangentibus Problemata sunt in potestate, alia-
que illis difficilliora. Ad que solvenda usus sum duplici methodo,
una concinniori, altera generationi. Utramque visum est impresen-
tia literis transpositis consignare, ne propter alios idem obtinentes,
institutum in aliquibus mutare cogerer. 5 a c c d æ 10 e f f h, &c.
id est, Una methodus consistit in extractione fluentis quantitatis
ex equatione simul involvente fluxionem ejus. Altera tantum in
assumptione seriei pro quantitate qualibet incognita, ex qua cætera
commodè derivari possunt; & in collatione terminorum homologorum
equationis resultantis ad eruendos terminos assumpta seriei. By
Mr. Newton’s two Letters, its certain that he had then (or ra-
ther above five Years before) found out the Reduction of
Problems to fluxional Equations and converging Series: and
by the Answer of Mr. Leibnitz to the first of those Letters,
its as certain that he had not then found out the Reduction of
Problems either to differential Equations or to converging
Series.

And the same is manifest also by what Mr. Leibnitz wrote
in the Acta Eruditorum, Anno 1691, concerning this Matter.
Jam anno 1675, saith he, compositum habebam opusculum Quadrature Arithmetica ab amicis ab illo tempore lectum, sed quod, materia sub manibus crescente, limare ad Editionem non vacavit, postquam alia occupationes supervenere; praestim cum nunc prolixius exponere vulgari more quam Analysis nostra paucis exhibet, non satis opera pretium videatur. This Quadrature composed vulgari more he began to communicate at Paris in the Year 1675. The next Year he was polishing the Demonstration thereof, to send it to Mr. Oldenburgh in Recompence for Mr. Newton's Method, as he wrote to him May 12. 1676; and accordingly in his Letter of August 27. 1676. he sent it composed and polished vulgari more. The Winter following he returned into Germany, by England and Holland, to enter upon publick Business, and had no longer any Leisure to fit it for the Press, nor thought it afterwards worth his while to explain those Things prolixly in the vulgar manner which his new Analysis exhibited in short. He found out this new Analysis therefore after his Return into Germany, and by consequence not before the Year 1677.

The same is further manifest by the following Consideration. Dr. Barrow published his Method of Tangents in the Year 1670. Mr. Newton in his Letter dated December 10. 1672. communicated his Method of Tangents to Mr. Collins, and added: Hoc est unum particulare vel Corollarium potius Methodi generalis, qua extendit se citra molestum ullum calculum, non modo ad ducendum Tangentes ad quasvis Curvas sive Geometricas sive Mechanicas, vel quomodo cunque rectas Lineas aliasve Curvas respicientes; verum etiam ad resolvendum alia abstrusa Problematum genera de Curvitatibus, Areis, Longitudinibus, Centris Gravitatis Curvarum, &c. Neque (quemadmodum Huddenii methodus de Maximis & Minimis) ad solas restringitur equationes illas, qua quantitatibus surdis sunt immunes. Hanc methodum intertexui alteri isti qua Equationum Exegetin instituo, reducendo eas ad series infinitas. Mr. Slusius sent his Method of Tangents to Mr. Oldenburgh Jan. 17. 1673, and the same was soon
soon after published in the Transactions. It proved to be the same with that of Mr Newton. It was founded upon three Lemmas, the first of which was this, *Differentia duarum dignitatum ejusdem gradus applicata ad differentiam laterum dat partes singulares gradus inferioris ex binomio laterum, ut* \( \frac{y^3 - x^3}{y - x} = yy + yx + xx \), that is, in the Notation of Mr Leibnitz \( \frac{d}{dy} y^3 = 3yy \). A Copy of Mr Newton's Letter of Decemb. 10. 1672 was sent to Mr Leibnitz by Mr Oldenburg amongst the Papers of Mr James Gregory, at the same time with Mr Newton's Letter of June 13. 1676. And Mr Newton having described in these two Letters that he had a very general Analysis, consisting partly of the Method of converging Series, partly of another Method, by which he applied those Series to the Solution of almost all Problems (except perhaps some numerical ones like those of Diophantus) and found the Tangents, Areas, Lengths, solid Contents, Centers of Gravity, and Curvities of Curves, and curvilinear Figures Geometrical or Mechanical, without sticking at Surds; and that the Method of Tangents of Slusius was but a Branch or Corollary of this other Method: Mr Leibnitz in his returning Home through Holland, was meditating upon the Improvement of the Method of Slusius. For in a Letter to Mr Oldenburgh, dated from Amsterdam Nov. 15. 1676, he wrote thus: *Methodus Tangentium à Slusio publicata nondum rei fastigium tenet. Potest aliquid amplius praestari in eo genere quod maximi foret usus ad omnis generis Problemata: etiam ad meam (sine extractionibus) Equationum ad series reductionem. Nimium posset brevis quaedam calculari circa Tangentes Tabula, cousque continuanda donec progressio Tabulae apparet; ut eam scilicet quisque quousque libuerit sine calculo continuare possit.* This was the Improvement of the Method of Slusius into a general Method, which Mr Leibnitz was then thinking upon, and by his Words, *Potest*.
Potest aliquid amplius praestari in eo genere quod maximi foret usus ad omnis generis Problemata, it seems to be the only Improvement which he had then in his Mind for extending the Method to all sorts of Problems. The Improvement by the differential Calculus was not yet in his Mind, but must be referred to the next Year.

Mr. Newton in his next Letter, dated Octob. 24. 1676, mentioned the Analysis communicated by Dr. Barrow to Mr. Collins in the Year 1669, and also another Tract written in 1671 about converging Series, and about the other Method by which Tangents were drawn after the Method of Slusius, and Maxima and Minima were determined, and the Quadrature of Curves was made more easy, and this without sticking at Radicals, and by which Series were invented which brake off and gave the Quadrature of Curves in finite Equations when it might be. And the Foundation of these Operations he comprehended in this Sentence exprest enigmatically as above. Data aequatione fluentes quotcunque quantitates involvente fluxiones invenire, & vice versa. Which puts it past all Dispute that he had invented the Method of Fluxions before that time. And if other things in that Letter be considered, it will appear that he had then brought it to great Perfection, and made it exceeding general; the Propositions in his Book of Quadratures, and the Methods of converging Series and of drawing a Curve Line through any Number of given Points, being then known to him. For when the Method of Fluxions proceeds not in finite Equations, he reduces the Equations into converging Series by the binomial Theoreme, and by the Extraction of Fluents out of Equations involving or not involving their Fluxions. And when finite Equations are wanting, he deduces converging Series from the Conditions of the Probleme, by assuming the Terms of the Series gradually, and determining them by those Conditions. And when Fluents are to be derived from Fluxions, and the Law of the Fluxions is wanting, he finds
that Law quam proxime, by drawing a Parabolick Line through any Number of given Points. And by these Improvements Mr. Newton had in those Days made his Method of Fluxions much more universal than the Differential Method of Mr. Leibnitz is at present.

This Letter of Mr. Newton's, dated Octob. 24. 1676, came to the Hands of Mr. Leibnitz in the End of the Winter or Beginning of the Spring following; and Mr. Leibnitz soon after, viz. in a Letter dated June 21. 1677, wrote back: Clarissimi Slusii methodum Tangentium nondum esse absolutam Celeberrimo Newtono assentior. Et jam à multo tempore rem Tangentium generalius tractavi, scilicet per differentias Ordinatarum. ——— Hinc nominando, in posterum, dy differentiam duarum proximarum y &c. Here Mr. Leibnitz began first to propose his Differential Method, and there is not the least Evidence that he knew it before the Receipt of Mr. Newton's last Letter. He faith indeed, Jam à multo tempore rem Tangentium generalius tractavi, scilicet per differentias Ordinatarum: and so he affirmed in other Letters, that he had invented several converging Series direct and inverse before he had the Method of inventing them; and had forgot an inverse Method of Series before he knew what use to make of it. But no Man is a Witness in his own Cause. A Judge would be very unjust, and act contrary to the Laws of all Nations, who should admit any Man to be a Witness in his own Cause. And therefore it lies upon Mr. Leibnitz to prove that he found out this Method long before the Receipt of Mr. Newton's Letters. And if he cannot prove this, the Question, Who was the first Inventor of the Method, is decided.

The Marquis De l' Hospital (a Person of very great Candour) in the Preface to his Book De Analyti quantitatum infinitè parvarum, published A.C. 1696. tells us, that a little after the Publication of the Method of Tangents of Des Cartes, Mr. Fermat found also a Method, which Des Cartes himself at length allowed to be, for the most part, more simple than his
his own. But it was not yet so simple as Mr. Barrow afterwards made it, by considering more nearly the nature of Polygons, which offers naturally to the Mind a little Triangle, compos'd of a Particle of the Curve lying between two Ordinates infinitely near one another, and of the Difference of these two Ordinates, and of that of the two correspondent Abscissa's. And this Triangle is like that which ought to be made by the Tangent, the Ordinate, and the Sub-tangent: so that by one simple Analogy, this last Method saves all the Calculation which was requisite either in the Method of Des Cartes, or in this same Method before. Mr. Barrow stopt not here, he invented also a sort of Calculation proper for this Method. But it was necessary in this as well as in that of Des Cartes, to take away Fractions and Radicals for making it useful. Upon the Defect of this Calculus, that of the celebrated Mr. Leibnitz was introduced, and this learned Geometer began where Mr. Barrow and others left off. This his Calculus led into Regions hitherto unknown, and there made Discoveries which astonished the most able Mathematicians of Europe, &c. Thus far the Marquiss. He had not seen Mr. Newton's Analysis, nor his Letters of Decem. 10. 1672. June 13. 1676, and Octob. 24. 1676: and so not knowing that Mr. Newton had done all this and signified it to Mr. Leibnitz, he reckoned that Mr. Leibnitz began where Mr. Barrow left off, and by teaching how to apply Mr. Barrow's Method without sticking at Fractions and Surds, had enlarged the Method wonderfully. And Mr. James Bernoulli, in the Acta Eruditorum of January 1691 pag. 14. writes thus: Qui calculum Barrovianum (quem in Lectionibus suis Geometricis adumbravit Auctor, cujusque Specimina sunt tota illa Propositionum inibi contentarum farrago,) intellecterit, [calculum] alterum à Domino Leibnitio inventum, ignorare vix poterit; utpote quin in priori illo fundatus est, & nisi forte in Differentialium notatione operationis aliquo compendio ab eo non differat.

Now
Now Dr. Barrow, in his Method of Tangents, draws two Ordinates indefinitely near to one another, and puts the Letter \(a\) for the Difference of the Ordinates, and the Letter \(e\) for the Difference of the Abscissa's, and for drawing the Tangent gives these Three Rules:

1. Inter computandum, saith he, omnes abjicio terminos in quibus ipsarum \(a\) vel \(e\) potestas habeatur, vel in quibus ipsa ducuntur in se. Etenim isti termini nihil valebunt.

2. Post equationem constitutam omnes abjicio terminos literis constantes quantitates notas seu determinatas significantibus, aut in quibus non habentur \(a\) vel \(e\). Etenim illi termini semper ad unam equationis partem adduti nihilum adequabunt.

3. Pro \(a\) Ordinatam, \& pro \(e\) Subtangentem substituo. Hinc demum Subtangentis quantitas dignoscetur. Thus far Dr. Barrow.

And Mr. Leibnitz in his Letter of June 21, 1677 above-mentioned, wherein he first began to propose his Differential Method, has followed this Method of Tangents exactly, excepting that he has changed the Letters \(a\) and \(e\) of Dr. Barrow into \(dx\) and \(dy\). For in the Example which he there gives, he draws two parallel Lines and sets all the Terms below the under Line, in which \(dx\) and \(dy\) are (severally or jointly) of more than one Dimension, and all the Terms above the upper Line, in which \(dx\) and \(dy\) are wanting, and for the Reasons given by Dr. Barrow, makes all these Terms vanish. And by the Terms in which \(dx\) and \(dy\) are but of one Dimension, and which he sets between the two Lines, he determines the Proportion of the Subtangent to the Ordinate. Well therefore did the Marquis de l'Hospital observe that where Dr. Barrow left off Mr. Leibnitz began: for their Methods of Tangents are exactly the same.

But Mr. Leibnitz adds this Improvement of the Method, that the Conclusion of this Calculus is coincident with the Rule of Slusius, and shews how that Rule presently occurs to any one who understands this Method. For Mr. Newton had represented in his Letters, that this Rule was a Corollary of his general Method.
And whereas Mr. Newton had said that his Method in drawing of Tangents, and determining Maxima and Minima, &c. proceeded without sticking at Surds: Mr. Leibnitz in the next Place, shews how this Method of Tangents may be improved so as not to stick at Surds or Fractions, and then adds: Arbitror que celare voluit Newtonus de Tangentibus ducendis ab his non abludere. Quod addit, ex hoc eodem fundamento Quadraturas quoque reddi faciliiores me in hac sententia confirmat; nimirum semper figura illa sunt quadrabiles qua sunt ad equationem differentialem. By which Words, compared with the preceding Calculation, its manifest that Mr. Leibnitz at this time understood that Mr. Newton had a Method which would do all these things, and had been examining whether Dr. Barrow's Differential Method of Tangents might not be extended to the same Performances.

In November 1684 Mr. Leibnitz published the Elements of this Differential Method in the Acta Eruditorum, and illustrated it with Examples of drawing Tangents and determining Maxima and Minima, and then added. Et hæc quidem initia sunt Geometriae cujusdam multo sublimioris, ad difficillima & pulcherrima quaque etiam mistæ Matheæos Problemata pertingentis, qua sine calculo differentiali AUT SIMILI non temere quisquam pari facilitate tractabit. The Words AUT SIMILI plainly relate to Mr. Newton's Method. And the whole Sentence contains nothing more than what Mr. Newton had affirmed of his general Method in his Letters of 1672 and 1676.

And in the Acta Eruditorum of June 1686, pag. 297. Mr. Leibnitz added: Malo autem dx & similia adhibere quam literas pro illis, quia istud dx est modificatio quædam ipsius x, &c. He knew that in this Method he might have used Letters with Dr. Barrow, but chose rather to use the new Symbols $dx$ and $dy$, though there is nothing which can be done by these Symbols, but may be done by single Letters with more brevity.
The next Year Mr. Newton's Principia Philosophiae came abroad, a Book full of such Problemes as Mr. Leibnitz had called difficillima & pulcherrima etiam mista Matheos problemata, qua sine calculo differentiali aut SIMILI non temere quisquam pari facilitate tractabit. And the Marquess de L'Hospital has represented this Book presque tout de ce calcul; composed almost wholly of this Calculus. And Mr. Leibnitz himself in a Letter to Mr. Newton, dated from Hannover, March 7, 1693 and still extant in his own Hand-writing, and upon a late Occasion communicated to the Royal Society, acknowledged the same thing in these Words: Mirifice amplaveras Geometriam tuis Seriebus, sed edito Principiorum opere ostendisti patere tibi etiam qua Analyti receptae non subsunt. Conatus sum ego quoque, notis commodis adhibitis qua differentias & summam exhibeant, Geometriam illam quam Transcendentem appello Analyti quodammodo subjicere, nec res male processit; And again in his Answer to Mr. Fatio, printed in the Acta Eruditorum of May 1700, pag.203. lin.21. he acknowledged the same thing. In the second Lemma of the second Book of these Principles, the Elements of this Calculus are demonstrated synthetically, and at the End of the Lemma there is a Scholium in these Words. In Literis que mihi cum Geometra peritissimo G. G. Leibnitio annis albin decem intercedebant, cum significarem me compositum esse methodi determinandi Maximas & Minimas, ducendi Tangentes & similia peragendi, qua in terminis surdis ac in rationalibus procederet & literis transpositis hanc sententiam involventibus [Data equatione quotcunque fluentes quantitates involvente, fluxiones invenire, & vice versa] eandem celarem: rescriptit Vir clarissimus se quoque in ejusmodi methodum incidisse, & methodum suam communicavit a mea vix abludentem praterquam in verborum & notarum formulis. Utrinque fundamentum continetur in hoc Lemmate. In those Letters, and in another dated Decem. 10. 1672, a Copy of which, at that time, was sent to Mr. Leibnitz by Mr. Oldenburgh, as is mentioned above, Mr. Newton had so far explained his Method, that it was not difficult for Mr.
Mr. Leibnitz, by the Help of Dr. Barrow's Method of Tangents, to collect it from those Letters. And its certain, by the Arguments above-mentioned, that he did not know it before the writing of those Letters.

Dr. Wallis had received Copies of Mr. Newton's two Letters of June 13. and Octob. 24. 1676 from Mr. Oldenburgh, and published several things out of them in his Algebra, printed in English 1683, and in Latin 1693; and soon after had Intimation from Holland to print the Letters entire, because Mr. Newton's Notions of Fluxions passed there with Applause by the Name of the Differential Method of Mr. Leibnitz. And thereupon he took notice of this Matter in the Preface to the first Volume of his Works published A.C. 1695. And in a Letter to Mr. Leibnitz dated Decemb. 1. 1696, he gave the Account of it. Cum Praefationis (praefigende) postremum folium erat sub pralo, ejusque typos jam posuerant Typotheta; me monuit amicus quidam (harum rerum gnarus) qui peregre fuerat, tum tallem methodum in Belgio predicari, tum illam cum Newtoni methodo Fluxionum quasi coincidere. Quod fecit ut (translatis typis jam positis) id monitum interseruerim. And in a Letter dated April 10. 1695, and lately communicated to the Royal-Society, he wrote thus about it. I wish you would print the two large Letters of June and August [he means June and October] 1676. I had intimation from Holland, as desired there by your Friends, that somewhat of that kind were done; because your Notions (of Fluxions) pass there with great Applause by the Name of Leibnitz's Calculus Differentialis. I had* this intimation when all but part of the Preface to this Volume was printed off; so that I could only insert (while the Press stay'd) that short Intimation thereof which you there find. You are not so kind to your Reputation (and that of the Nation) as you might be, when you let things of worth lie by you so long, till others carry away

* Extat hæc Epistola in tertio volumine operum Wallisi.
The Reputation that is due to you. I have endeavoured to do you Justice in that Point, and am now sorry that I did not print those two Letters verbatim.

The short Intimation of this Matter, which Dr. Wallis inserted into the said Preface, was in these Words. In secundo Volumine (inter alia) habetur Newtoni Methodus de Fluxionibus (ut ille loquitur) consimilis naturae cum Leibnitii (ut hic loquitur) Calculo Differentiali (quod qui utramque methodum contulerit satis animadvertat, ut ut sub loquendi formulis diversis) quam ego descripti (Algebrae cap. 91. &c. presertim cap. 95) ex binis Newtoni Literis, aut earum alteris, Junii 13. & Octob. 24. 1676 ad Oldenburgum datis, cum Leibnitio tum communicandis (iisdem fere verbis, saltem leviter mutatis, que in illis literis habentur.) ubi METHODUM HANC LEIBNITIO EXPONIT, tum ante DECEM ANNOS nedium plures [id est, anno 1666 vel 1665] ab ipso excogitatam. Quod monco, nequis causetur de hoc Calculo Differentiali nihil à nobis dictum esse.

Hereupon the Editors of the Acta Lipsiensia, the next Year in June, in the Style of Mr. Leibnitz, in giving an Account of these two first Volumes of Dr. Wallis, took notice of this Clause of the Doctor's Preface, and complained, not of his saying that Mr. Newton in his two Letters above-mentioned explained to Mr Leibnitz the Method of Fluxions found by him Ten Years before or above; but that while the Doctor mentioned the Differential Calculus, and said that he did it nequis causetur de calculo differentiali nihil ab ipso dictum fuisse, he did not tell the Reader that Mr. Leibnitz had this Calculus at that time when those Letters passed between him and Mr. Newton, by means of Mr. Oldenburgh. And, in several Letters which followed hereupon, between Mr. Leibnitz and Dr. Wallis, concerning this Matter, Mr. Leibnitz denied not that Mr. Newton had the Method Ten Years before the writing of those Letters, as Dr. Wallis had affirmed; pretended not that he himself had the Method so early; brought no Proof that he had it before the Year 1677.
1677; no other Proof besides the Concession of Mr. Newton that he had it so early; affirmed not that he had it earlier; commended Mr. Newton for his Candour in this Matter; allowed that the Methods agreed in the main, and said that he therefore used to call them by the common Name of his Infinite Analys; represented, that as the Methods of Vieta and Cartes were called by the common Name of Analysts Specios, and yet differed in some things; so perhaps the Methods of Mr Newton and himself might differ in some things, and challenged to himself only those things wherein, as he conceived, they might differ, naming the Notation, the differential Equations and the Exponential Equations. But in his Letter of June 21, 1677 he reckon'd differential Equations common to Mr. Newton and himself.

This was the State of the Dispute between Dr. Wallis and Mr. Leibnitz at that time. And Four years after, when Mr. Fatio suggested that Mr. Leibnitz, the second Inventor of this Calculus, might borrow something from Mr. Newton, the oldest Inventor by many Years: Mr. Leibnitz in his Answer, published in the Acta Eruditorum of May 1700, allowed that Mr. Newton had found the Method apart, and did not deny that Mr. Newton was the oldest Inventor by many Years, nor asserted any thing more to himself, than that he also had found the Method apart, or without the Assistance of Mr. Newton, and pretended that when he first published it, he knew not that Mr. Newton had found any thing more of it than the Method of Tangents. And in making this Defence he added: Quam [methodum] ante Dominum Newtonum & Me nullus quod sciam Geometra habuit; uti ante hunc maximi nominis Geometram NEMO specimine publice dato se habere probavit, ante Dominos Bernoullios & Me nullus communicavit. Hitherto therefore Mr. Leibnitz did not pretend to be the first Inventor. He did not begin to put in such a Claim till after the Death of Dr. Wallis, the last of the old Men who were acquainted with what had passed between the English and Mr. Leibnitz.
Forty Years ago. The Doctor died in October A.C. 1703, and Mr. Leibnitz began not to put in this new Claim before January 1705.

Mr. Newton published his Treatise of Quadratures in the Year 1704. This Treatise was written long before, many things being cited out of it in his Letters of Octob. 24. and Novemb. 8. 1676. It relates to the Method of Fluxions, and that it might not be taken for a new Piece, Mr. Newton repeated what Dr. Wallis had published Nine Years before without being then contradicted, namely, that this Method was invented by Degrees in the Years 1665 and 1666. Hereupon the Editors of the Acta Lipsiensia in January 1705, in the Style of Mr. Leibnitz, in giving an Account of this Book, represented that Mr. Leibnitz was the first Inventor of the Method, and that Mr. Newton had substituted Fluxions for Differences. And this Accusation gave a Beginning to this present Controversy.

For Mr. Keill, in an Epistle published in the Philosophical Transactions for Sept. and Octob. 1708, retorted the Accusation, saying: Fluxionum Arithmeticam sine omni dubio primus invenit D. Newtonus, ut cuilibet ejus Epistolae à Wallisio editas legenti facile constabit. Eadem tamen Arithmetica postea mutatis nomine & notationis modo à Domino Leibnitio in Actis Eruditorum edita est.

Before Mr. Newton saw what had been published in the Acta Lipsica, he express'd himself offended at the printing of this Paragraph of Mr. Keill's Letter, least it should create a Controversy. And Mr. Leibnitz, understanding it in a stronger Sense than Mr. Keill intended it, complain'd of it as a Calumny, in a Letter to Dr. Sloane dated March 4. 1711 N.S. and moved that the Royal-Society would cause Mr. Keill to make a publick Recantation. Mr. Keill chose rather to explain and defend what he had written; and Mr. Newton, upon being shewed the Accusation in the Acta Lipsica, gave him leave to do so. And Mr. Leibnitz in a second Letter to Dr. Sloane, dated Decem. 29. 1711, instead of making good his Accusation
sation, as he was bound to do that it might not be deem'd a Calumny, insisted only upon his own Candour, as if it would be Injustice to question it; and refus'd to tell how he came by the Method; and said that the Acta Lipsica had given every Man his due, and that he had concealed the Invention above Nine Years, (he should have said Seven Years) that No body might pretend (he means that Mr. Newton might not pretend) to have been before him in it; and called Mr. Keill a Novice unacquainted with things past, and one that acted without Authority from Mr. Newton, and a clamorous Man who deserved to be silenced, and desired that Mr. Newton himself would give his Opinion in the Matter. He knew that Mr. Keill affirmed nothing more than what Dr. Wallis had published thirteen Years before, without being then contradicted. He knew that Mr. Newton had given his Opinion in this matter in the Introduction to his Book of Quadratures, published before this Controversy began: but Dr. Wallis was dead; the Mathematicians which remained in England were Novices; Mr. Leibnitz may Question any Man's Candour without Injustice, and Mr. Newton must now retract what he had published or not be quiet.

The Royal-Society therefore, having as much Authority over Mr. Leibnitz as over Mr. Keill, and being now twice pressed by Mr. Leibnitz to interpose, and seeing no reason to condemn or censure Mr. Keill without enquiring into the matter; and that neither Mr. Newton nor Mr. Leibnitz (the only Persons alive who knew and remembred anything of what had passed in these matters Forty Years ago) could be Witnesses for or against Mr. Keill; appointed a numerous Committee to search old Letters and Papers, and report their Opinion upon what they found; and ordered the Letters and Papers, with the Report of their Committee to be published. And by these Letters and Papers it appear'd to them, that Mr. Newton had the Method in or before the Year 1669, and it did not appear to them that Mr. Leibnitz had it before the Year 1677. For
For making himself the first Inventor of the Differential Method, he has represented that Mr. Newton at first used the Letter \( o \) in the vulgar manner for the given Increment of \( x \), which destroys the Advantages of the Differential Method; but after the writing of his Principles, changed \( o \) into \( \dot{x} \), substituting \( \dot{x} \) for \( dx \). It lies upon him to prove that Mr. Newton ever changed \( o \) into \( \dot{x} \), or used \( \dot{x} \) for \( dx \), or left off the Use of the Letter \( o \). Mr. Newton used the Letter \( o \) in his Analysis written in or before the Years 1669, and in his Book of Quadratures, and in his Principia Philosophiae, and still uses it in the very same Sense as at first. In his Book of Quadratures he used it in conjunction with the Symbol \( \dot{x} \), and therefore did not use that Symbol in its Room. These Symbols \( o \) and \( \dot{x} \) are put for things of a different kind. The one is a Moment, the other a Fluxion or Velocity as has been explained above. When the Letter \( x \) is put for a Quantity which flows uniformly, the Symbol \( \dot{x} \) is an Unit, and the Letter \( o \) a Moment, and \( \dot{x} \) and \( dx \) signify the same Moment. Prickt Letters never signify Moments, unless when they are multiplied by the Moment \( o \) either express or understood to make them infinitely little, and then the Rectangles are put for Moments.

Mr. Newton doth not place his Method in Forms of Symbols, nor confine himself to any particular Sort of Symbols for Fluents and Fluxions. Where he puts the Areas of Curves for Fluents, he frequently puts the Ordinates for Fluxions, and denotes the Fluxions by the Symbols of the Ordinates, as in his Analysis. Where he puts Lines for Fluents, he puts any Symbols for the Velocities of the Points which describe the Lines, that is, for the first Fluxions; and any other Symbols for the Increase of those Velocities, that is, for the second Fluxions, as is frequently done in his Principia Philosophiae. And where he puts the Letters \( x, y, z \) for Fluents, he denotes their Fluxions, either by other Letters as \( p, q, r \); or by the same Letters in other Forms as \( X, Y, Z \) or \( x, y, z \); or by any
any Lines as $DE$, $FG$, $HI$, considered as their Exponents. And this is evident by his Book of Quadratures, where he represents Fluxions by prickt Letters in the first Proposition, by Ordinates of Curves in the last Proposition, and by other Symbols, in explaining the Method and illustrating it with Examples, in the Introduction. Mr. Leibnitz hath no Symbols of Fluxions in his Method, and therefore Mr. Newton's Symbols of Fluxions are the oldest in the kind. Mr. Leibnitz began to use the Symbols of Moments or Differences $dx$, $dy$, $dz$ in the Year 1677. Mr. Newton represented Moments by the Rectangles under the Fluxions and the Moment $o$, when he wrote his Analysis, which was at least Forty Six Years ago. Mr. Leibnitz has used the Symbols $sx$, $sy$, $sz$ for the Sums of Ordinates ever since the Year 1686; Mr. Newton represented the same thing in his Analysis, by inscribing the Ordinate in a Square or Rectangle. All Mr. Newton's Symbols are the oldest in their several Kinds by many Years.

And whereas it has been represented that the use of the Letter $o$ is vulgar, and destroys the Advantages of the Differential Method: on the contrary, the Method of Fluxions, as used by Mr. Newton, has all the Advantages of the Differential, and some others. It is more elegant, because in his Calculus there is but one infinitely little Quantity represented by a Symbol, the Symbol $o$. We have no Ideas of infinitely little Quantities, and therefore Mr. Newton introduced Fluxions into his Method, that it might proceed by finite Quantities as much as possible. It is more Natural and Geometrical, because founded upon the prima quantitatum nascentium rationes, which have a Being in Geometry, whilst Indivisibles, upon which the Differential Method is founded, have no Being either in Geometry or in Nature. There are rationes prima quantitatum nascentium, but not quantitates prima nascentes. Nature generates Quantities by continual Flux or Increase; and the ancient Geometers admitted such a Generation of Areas and Solids, when they drew one Line into another by local Motion.
to generate an Area, and the Area into a Line by local Motion to generate a Solid. But the summing up of Indivisibles to compose an Area or Solid was never yet admitted into Geometry. Mr. Newton's Method is also of greater Use and Certainty, being adapted either to the ready finding out of a Proposition by such Approximations as will create no Error in the Conclusion, or to the demonstrating it exactly: Mr. Leibnitz's is only for finding it out. When the Work succeeds not in finite Equations Mr. Newton has recourse to converging Series, and thereby his Method becomes incomparably more universal than that of Mr. Leibnitz, which is confin'd to finite Equations: for he has no Share in the Method of infinite Series. Some Years after the Method of Series was invented, Mr. Leibnitz invented a Proposition for transmuting curvilinear Figures into other curvilinear Figures of equal Areas, in order to square them by converging Series; but the Methods of squaring those other Figures by such Series were not his. By the help of the new Analysis Mr. Newton found out most of the Propositions in his Principia Philosophiae: but because the Ancients for making things certain admitted nothing into Geometry before it was demonstrated synthetically, he demonstrated the Propositions synthetically, that the Systeme of the Heavens might be founded upon good Geometry. And this makes it now difficult for unskilful Men to see the Analysis by which those Propositions were found out.

It has been represented that Mr. Newton, in the Scholium at the End of his Book of Quadratures, has put the third, fourth, and fifth Terms of a converging Series respectively equal to the second, third, and fourth Differences of the first Term, and therefore did not then understand the Method of second, third, and fourth Differences. But in the first Proposition of that Book he shewed how to find the first, second, third and following Fluxions in infinitum; and therefore when he wrote that Book, which was before the Year 1676, he did understand the Method of all the Fluxions, and by conse-
sequence of all the Differences. And if he did not understand it when he added that Scholium to the End of the Book, which was in the Year 1704, it must have been because he had then forgot it. And so the Question is only whether he had forgot the Method of second and third Differences before the Year 1704.

In the Tenth Proposition of the second Book of his Principia Philosophiae, in describing some of the Uses of the Terms of a converging Series for solving of Problemes, he tells us that if the first Term of the Series represents the Ordinate BC of any Curve Line ACG, and CBDI be a Parallelogram infinitely narrow, whose Side DI cuts the Curve in G and its Tangent CF in F, the second Term of the Series will represent the Line IF, and the third Term the Line FG. Now the Line FG is but half the second Difference of the Ordinate: and therefore Mr. Newton when he wrote his Principia, put the third Term of the Series equal to half of the second Difference of the first Term, and by consequence had not then forgotten the Method of second Differences.

In writing that Book, he had frequent occasion to consider the Increase or Decrease of the Velocities with which Quantities are generated, and argues right about it. That Increase or Decrease is the second Fluxion of the Quantity, and therefore he had not then forgotten the Method of second Fluxions.

In the Year 1692, Mr. Newton, at the Request of Dr. Wallis, sent to him a Copy of the first Proposition of the Book of Quadratures, with Examples thereof in first, second and third Fluxions: as you may see in the second Volume of the Doctor's Works, pag. 391, 392, 393 and 396. And therefore he had not then forgotten the Method of second Fluxions.
Nor is it likely, that in the Year 1704; when he added the aforesaid Scholium to the End of the Book of Quadratures, he had forgotten not only the first Proposition of that Book, but also the last Proposition upon which that Scholium was written. If the Word [ut], which in that Scholium may have been accidentally omitted between the Words [erit] and [ejus,] be restor'd, that Scholium will agree with the two Propositions and with the rest of his Writings, and the Objection will vanish.

Thus much concerning the Nature and History of these Methods, it will not be amiss to make some Observations thereupon.

In the Commercium Epistolicum, mention is made of three Tracts written by Mr. Leibnitz, after a Copy of Mr. Newton's Principia Philosophiae had been sent to Hannover for him; and after he had seen an Account of that Book published in the Acta Eruditorum for January and February 1689. And in those Tracts the principal Propositions of that Book are composed in a new manner, and claimed by Mr. Leibnitz as if he had found them himself before the publishing of the said Book. But Mr. Leibnitz cannot be a Witness in his own Cause. It lies upon him either to prove that he found them before Mr. Newton, or to quit his claim.

In the last of those three Tracts, the 20th Proposition (which is the chief of Mr. Newton's Propositions) is made a Corollary of the 19th Proposition, and the 19th Proposition has an erroneous Demonstration adapted to it. It lies upon him either to satisfy the World that the Demonstration is not erroneous, or to acknowledge that he did not find that and the 20th Proposition thereby, but tried to adapt a Demonstration to Mr. Newton's Proposition to make it his own. For he represents in his 20th Proposition that he knew not how Mr. Newton came by it, and by consequence that he found it himself without the Assistance of Mr. Newton.

By the Errors in the 15th and 19th Proposition of the third Tract, Dr. Keill hath shewed that when Mr. Leibnitz wrote these.
these three Tracts, he did not well understand the Ways of working in second Differences. And this is further manifest by the 10th, 11th, and 12th Propositions of this third Tract. For these he lays down as the Foundation of his infinitesimal Analysis in arguing about centrifugal Forces, and proposes the first of them with relation to the Center of Curvity of the Orb, but uses this Proposition in the two next, with Relation to the Center of Circulation. And by confounding these two Centers with one another in the fundamental Propositions upon which he grounds this Calculus, he erred in the Superstructure, and for want of Skill in second and third Differences, was not able to extricate himself from the Errors. And this is further confirmed by the sixth Article of the second Tract. For that Article is erroneous, and the Error arises from his not knowing how to argue well about second and third Differences. When therefore he wrote those Tracts he was but a Learner, and this he ought in candour to acknowledge.

It seems therefore that as he learnt the Differential Method by means of Mr. Newton's aforesaid three Letters compared with Dr. Barrow's Method of Tangents; so Ten Years after, when Mr. Newton's Principia Philosophiae came abroad, he improved his Knowledge in these Matters, by trying to extend this Method to the Principal Propositions in that Book, and by this means composed the said three Tracts. For the Propositions contained in them (Errors and Trifles excepted) are Mr. Newton's (or easy Corollaries from them) being published by him in other Forms of Words before. And yet Mr. Leibnitz published them as invented by himself long before they were published by Mr. Newton. For in the End of the first Tract, he represents that he invented them all before Mr. Newton's Principia Philosophiae came abroad, and some of them before he left Paris, that is before October 1676. And the second Tract he concludes with these Words: Multa ex his deduci possent praxi accommodata, sed nobis.
bis nunc fundamenta Geometrica jecisse suffecerit, in quibus maxima consiliebat difficilis. Et fortassis attente consideranti vias quasdam novas satis antea impeditas aperuisse videbimur. Omnia autem respondent nostra Analyti Infinitorum, hoc est calculo Summarum & Differentiarum (cujus elementa quaedam in his Actis dedimus) communibus quoad licuit verbis hic expresso. He pretends here that the Fundamenta Geometrica in quibus maxima consiliebat difficilis were first laid by himself in this very Tract, and that he himself had in this very Tract opened vias quasdam novas satis antea impeditas. And yet Mr. Newton's Principia Philosophiae came abroad almost two Years before, and gave occasion to the Writing of this Tract, and was written communibus quoad licuit verbis, and contains all these Principles and all these new Ways. And Mr. Leibnitz, when he published that Tract, knew all this, and therefore ought then to have acknowledged that Mr. Newton was the first who laid the Fundamenta Geometrica in quibus maxima consiliebat Difficultas, and opened the vias novas satis antea impeditas. In his Answer to Mr. Fatio he acknowledged all this, saying Quam [methodum] ante Dominum Newtonum & me nullus quod sciam Geometra habuit; uti ante hunc maximinominis Geometram, NEMO SPECIMINE PUBLICE DATO se habere PROBAVIT. And what he then acknowledged he ought in Candour and Honour to acknowledge still upon all Occasions.

Mr. Leibnitz in his Letter of May 28. 1697, wrote thus to Dr. Wallis. Methodum Fluxionum profundissimi Newtoni cognatum esse methodo meae differentiali non tantum animadverti postquam opus ejus [Principiorum scilicet] & tuum prodiit; sed etiam professus sum in Actis Eruditorum, & alias quaeque monui. Id enim candori meo convenire judicavi, non minus quam ipsius merito. Itaque communi nomine designare solem Analyseos infinitesimalis; qua latius quam Tetragonistica patet. Interim quemadmodum & Viettea & Cartesiana methodus Analyseos speciosae nomine venit; discrimina tamen nonnulla supersunt: ita fortasse
& Newtoniana & Mea different in nonnullis. Here also Mr. Leibnitz allows that when Mr Newton's Principles of Philosophy came abroad, he understood thereby the Affinity that there was between the Methods, and therefore called them both by the common Name of the infinitesimal Method, and thought himself bound in candour to acknowledge this Affinity: and there is still the same Obligation upon him in point of Candour. And besides this Acknowledgment, he here gives the Preference to Mr. Newton's Method in Antiquity. For he represents that as the vulgar Analysis in Species was invented by Vleta, and augmented by Cartes, which made some Differences between their Methods: so Mr. Newton's Method and his own might differ in some things. And then he goes on to enumerate the Differences by which he had improved Mr. Newton's Method as we mentioned above. And this Subordination of his Method to Mr. Newton's, which he then acknowledged to Dr. Wallis, he ought still to acknowledge.

In enumerating the Differences or Improvements which he had added to Mr. Newton's Method; he names in the second Place Differential Equations: but the Letters which passed between them in the Year 1676, do show that Mr. Newton had such Equations at that time, and Mr. Leibnitz had them not. He names in the third Place Exponential Equations: but these Equations are owing to his Correspondence with the English Dr. Wallis, in the Interpolation of Series, considered Fract and Negative Indices of Dignities. Mr. Newton introduced into his Analytical Computations, the Fract, Surd, Negative and Indefinitive Indices of Dignities; and in his Letter of October 24. 1676, represented to Mr. Leibnitz that his Method extended to the Resolution of affected Equations involving Dignities whose Indices were Fract or Surd. Mr. Leibnitz in his Answer dated June 21. 1677, mutually desired Mr. Newton to tell him what he thought of the Resolution of Equations involving Dig-
Dignities whose Indices were undetermined, such as were these \( x^y + y^x = xy \), \( x^x + y^y = x + y \). And these Equations he now calls Exponential, and represents to the World that he was the first Inventor thereof, and magnifies the Invention as a great Discovery. But he has not yet made a publick Acknowledgment of the Light which Mr. Newton gave him into it, nor produced any one Instance of the use that he has been able to make of it where the Indices of Dignities are Fluents. And since he has not yet rejected it with his usual Impatience for want of such an Instance, we have reason to expect that he will at length explain its Usefulness to the World.

Mr. Newton in his Letter of October 24, 1676 wrote that he had two Methods of resolving the Inverse Problems of Tangents, and such like difficult ones; one of which consisted in assuming a Series for any unknown Quantity from which all the rest might conveniently be deduced, and in collating the homologous Terms of the resulting Equation, for determining the Terms of the assumed Series. Mr. Leibnitz many Years after published this Method as his own, claiming to himself the first Invention thereof. It remains that he either renounce his Claim publickly, or prove that he invented it before Mr. Newton wrote his said Letter.

It lies upon him also to make a publick Acknowledgment of his Receipt of Mr. Oldenburgh's Letter of April 15, 1675, wherein several converging Series for squaring of Curves, and particularly that of Mr. James Gregory for finding the Arc by the given Tangent, and thereby squaring the Circle, were communicated to him. He acknowledged it privately in his Letter to Mr. Oldenburg dated May 10, 1675 still extant in his own Hand-writing, and by Mr. Oldenburg left entered in the Letter-Book of the Royal-Society. But he has not yet acknowledged it publickly, as he ought to have done when he published that Series as his own.
It lies upon him also to make a publick Acknowledgment of his having received the Extracts of Mr. James Gregory's Letters, which, at his own Request, were sent to him at Paris in June 1676 by Mr. Oldenburgh to peruse: amongst which was Mr. James Gregory's Letter of Feb. 15. 1671, concerning that Series, and Mr. Newton's Letter of December 10. 1672 concerning the Method of Fluxions.

And whereas in his Letter of Decem. 28. 1675 he wrote to Mr. Oldenburgh, that he had communicated that Series above two Years before to his Friends at Paris, and had written to him sometimes about it; and in his Letter of May 12. 1676 said to Mr. Oldenburgh that he had written to him about that Series some Years before; and in his Letter to Mr. Oldenburgh dated Aug. 27. 1676, that he had communicated that Series to his Friends above three Years before; that is, upon his first coming from London to Paris: He is desired to tell us how it came to pass, that when he received Mr. Oldenburgh's Letter of Apr. 15. 1675 he did not know that Series to be his own.

In his Letters of July 15. and Octob. 26. 1674, he tells us of but one Series for the circumference of a Circle, and faith that the Method which gave him this Series, gave him also a Series for any Arc whose Sine was given, tho' the Proportion of the Arc to the whole Circumference be not known. This Method therefore, by the given Sine of 30 Degrees, gave him a Series for the whole Circumference. If he had also a Series for the whole Circumference, deduced from the Tangent of 45 Degrees, he is desired to tell the World what Method he had in those Days, which could give him both those Series. For the Method by the Transmutation of Figures will not do it. He is desired also to tell us why in his said Letters he did not mention more Quadra-tures of the Circle than one.

And if in the Year 1674 he had the Demonstration of a Series for finding any Arc whose Sine is given, he is desired
to tell the World what it was; and why in his Letter of May 12, 1676 he desired Mr. Oldenburgh to procure from Mr. Collins the Demonstration of Mr. Newton's Series for doing the same thing; and wherein his own Series differed from Mr. Newton's. For upon all these Considerations there is a Suspicion that Mr. Newton's Series for finding the Arc whose Sine is given, was communicated to him in England; and that in the Year 1673 he began to communicate it as his own to some of his Friends at Paris, and the next Year wrote of it as his own in his Letters to Mr. Oldenburgh, in order to get the Demonstration or Method of finding such Series. But the Year following, when Mr. Oldenburgh sent him this Series and the Series of Mr. Gregory and Six other Series, he dropt his Pretence to this Series for want of a Demonstration, and took time to consider the Series sent him, and to compare them with his own, as if his Series were others different from those sent him. And when he had found a Demonstration of Gregory's Series by a Transmutation of Figures, he began to communicate it as his own to his Friends at Paris, as he represents in the Acta Eruditorum for April 1691, pag. 178, saying; Jam Anno 1675 compositum habebam opusculum Quadrature Arithmetica ab Amicis ab illo tempore letum, &c. But the Letter by which he had received this Series from Mr. Oldenburgh he concealed from his Friends, and pretended to Mr. Oldenburgh that he had this Series a Year or two before the Receipt of that Letter. And the next Year, upon receiving two of Mr. Newton's Series again by one George Mohr, he wrote to Mr. Oldenburgh in such a manner as if he had never seen them before, and upon Pretence of their Novelty, desired Mr. Oldenburgh to procure from Mr. Collins Mr. Newton's Method of finding them. If Mr. Leibnitz thinks fit to obviate this Suspicion, he is in the first Place to prove that he had Mr. Gregory's Series before he received it from Mr. Oldenburgh.
It lies upon him also to tell the World what was the Method by which the several Series of Regression for the Circle and Hyperbola, sent to him by Mr. Newton June 13, 1676, and claimed as his own by his Letter of August 27 following, were found by him before he received them from Mr. Newton.

And whereas Mr. Newton sent him, at his own Request, a Method of Regression, which upon the first reading he did not know to be his own, nor understood it; but so soon as he understood it he claimed as his own, by pretending that he had found it long before, and had forgot it, as he perceived by his old Papers: it lies upon him, in point of Candor and Justice, either to prove that he was the first Inventor of this Method, or to renounce his Claim to it for preventing future Disputes.

Mr. Leibnitz in his Letter to Mr. Oldenburgh dated Feb. 3, 1673 claimed a Right to a certain Property of a Series of Numbers Natural, Triangular, Pyramidal, Triangulo-Triangular, &c. and to make it his own, represented that he wondered that Monsieur Pascal, in his Book entituled Triangulum Arithmeticum, should omit it. That Book was published in the Year 1665, and contains this Property of the Series; and Mr. Leibnitz has not yet done him the Justice to acknowledge that he did not omit it. It lies upon him therefore in Candor and Justice, to renounce his Claim to this Property, and acknowledge Mr. Pascal the first Inventor.

He is also to renounce all Right to the Differential Method of Mouton as second Inventor: for second Inventors have no Right. The sole Right is in the first Inventor until another finds out the same thing apart. In which case to take away the Right of the first Inventor, and divide it between him and that other, would be an Act of Injustice.

In his Letter to Dr. Sloane dated Decem. 29. 1711. he has told us that his Friends know how he came by the Differential Method. It lies upon him, in point of Candor, openly and plainly, and without further Hesitation, to satisfy the World how he came by it.
In the same Letter he has told us that he had this Method above Nine Years before he published it, and it follows from thence that he had it in the Year 1675 or before. And yet its certain that he had it not when he wrote his Letter to Mr. Oldenburgh dated Aug. 27. 1676, wherein he affirmed that Problems of the Inverse Method of Tangents and many others, could not be reduced to infinite Series, nor to Equations or Quadratures. It lies upon him therefore, in point of Candor, to tell us what he means by pretending to have found the Method before he had found it.

We have shewed that Mr. Leibnitz, in the End of the Year 1676, in returning home from France through England and Holland, was meditating how to improve the Method of Slusius for Tangents, and extend it to all sorts of Problems; and for this end proposed the making of a general Table of Tangents; and therefore had not yet found out the true Improvement. But about half a Year after, when he was newly fallen upon the true Improvement, he wrote back: Clariss. Slusii Methodum Tangentium nondum esse absolutam Celeberrimo Newtono assentior. Et jam A MULTO TEMPORE rem Tangentium generalius tractavi, scilicet per differentias Ordinarum. Which is as much as to say that he had this Improvement long before those Days. It lies upon him, in point of Candor, to make us understand that he pretended to this Antiquity of his Invention with some other Design than to rival and supplant Mr. Newton, and to make us believe that he had the Differential Method before Mr. Newton explained it to him by his Letters of June 13. and Octob. 24. 1676, and before Mr. Oldenburgh sent him a Copy of Mr. Newton's Letter of Decem 10. 1672 concerning it.

The Editors of the Acta Eruditorum in June 1696, in giving an Account of the two first Volumes of the Mathematical Works of Dr. Wallis, wrote thus, in the Style of Mr. Leibnitz: Caterum ipse Newtonus, non minus Candore quam praclaris in rem Mathematicam meritis insignis, publice & pri-
privatim agnovit Leibnitium, tum cum (interveniente celeberrimo Viro Henrico Oldenburgo Bremenfi, Societatis Regiae Anglicanae tunc Secretario) inter ipsos (ejusdem jam tum Societatis Socios) Commerciun intercederet, id est jam fere ante annos viginti & amplius, Calculum suum differentialem, Seriesque infinitas, & pro its quoque Methodos generales habuisse; quod Wallisius in Prefatione Operum, facta inter eos communicationis mentionem faciens, praeterit, quoniam de eo fortasse non satis ipsi constabat. Ceterum Differentiarum consideratio Leibnitiana, cujus mentionem facit Wallisius (ne quis scilicet, ut ipse ait, causetur de Calculo Differentiali nihil ab ipso dictum fuisse) meditationes aperuit, qua aliunde non aequa nesciantur, &c. By the Words here cited out of the Preface to the two first Volumes of Dr. Wallis's Works, it appears that Mr. Leibnitz had seen that Part of the Preface, where Mr. Newton is said to have explained to him (in the Year 1676) the Method of Fluxions found by him Ten Years before or above. Mr. Newton never allowed that Mr. Leibnitz had the Differential Method before the Year 1677. And Mr. Leibnitz himself in the Acta Eruditorum for April 1691, pag. 178, acknowledged that he found it after he returned home from Paris to enter upon Business, that is, after the Year 1676. And as for his pretended general Method of infinite Series, it is so far from being general, that it is of little or no use. I do not know that any other Use hath been made of it, than to colour over the Pretence of Mr. Leibnitz to the Series of Mr. Gregory for squaring the Circle.

Mr. Leibnitz, in his Answer to Mr. Fatio printed in the Acta Eruditorum for the Year 1700, pag. 203, wrote thus. Ipse [Newtonus] scit unus omnium optime, satisque indicavit publice cum sua Mathematica Naturae Principia publicaret, Anno 1687, nova quaedam inventa Geometrica, qua ipsi communia mecum fuere, NEUTRUM LUCI AB ALTERO ACCEPTAE, sed meditationibus quemque suis debere, & a me decennio ante [i.e., anno 1677] exposita fuisse. In the Book
Book of Principles here referred unto, Mr. Newton did not acknowledge that Mr. Leibnitz found this Method without receiving Light into it from Mr. Newton's Letters above-mentioned; and Dr. Wallis had lately told him the contrary without being then confuted or contradicted. And if Mr. Leibnitz had found the Method without the Assistance of Mr. Newton, yet second Inventors have no Right.

Mr. Leibnitz in his aforesaid Answer to Mr. Fatio, wrote further: Certe cum elementa Calculi mea edidi anno 1684, ne constabat quidem mihi aliud de inventis ejus [sc. Newtoni] in hoc genere, quam quod ipse olim significaverat in literis, posse se Tangentes invenire non sublatis irrationabilibus, quod Hugenius quoque se posse mihi significavit postea, et si ceterorum ejus Calculi adhuc expers. Sed majora multo consecutum Newtonum, viso demum libro Principiorum ejus, satis intellecti. Here he again acknowledged that the Book of Principles gave him great Light into Mr. Newton's Method: and yet he now denies that this Book contains any thing of that Method in it. Here he pretended that before that Book came abroad he knew nothing more of Mr. Newton's Inventions of this kind, than that he had a certain Method of Tangents, and that by that Book he received the first Light into Mr. Newton's Method of Fluxions: but in his Letter of June 21, 1677 he acknowledged that Mr. Newton's Method extended also to Quadratures of curvilinear Figures, and was like his own. His Words are; Arbitror que celare voluit Newtonus de Tangentibus ducendis ab his non abludere. Quod addit, ex hoc eo-dem fundamento Quadraturas quoque reddi faciliores me in sententia hac confirmat; nimirum semper figura illa sunt quadrables qua sunt ad aequationem differentiam.

Mr. Newton had in his three Letters above-mentioned (copies of which Mr. Leibnitz had received from Mr. Oldenbergh) represented his Method so general, as by the Help of Equations, finite and infinite, to determin Maxima and Minima, Tangents, Areas, solid Contents, Centers of Gravity, Lengths
Lengths and Curvities of curve Lines and curvilinear Figures, and this without taking away Radicals, and to extend to the like Problems in Curves usually called Mechanical, and to inverse Problems of Tangents and others more difficult, and to almost all Problems, except perhaps some Numerical ones like those of Diophantus. And Mr. Leibnitz in his Letter of Aug. 27 1676, represented that he could not believe that Mr. Newton's Method was so general. Mr. Newton in the First of his three Letters set down his Method of Tangents deduced from this general Method, and illustrated it with an Example, and said that this Method of Tangents was but a Branch or Corollary of his General Method, and that he took the Method of Tangents of Slusius to be of the same kind: and thereupon Mr. Leibnitz, in his Return from Paris through England and Holland into Germany, was considering how to improve the Method of Tangents of Slusius, and extend it to all sorts of Problems, as we shewed above out of his Letters. And in his third Letter Mr. Newton illustrated his Method with Theorems for Quadratures and Examples thereof. And when he had made so large an Explanation of his Method, that Mr. Leibnitz had got Light into it, and had in his Letter of June 21. 1677 explained how the Method which he was fallen into answered to the Description which Mr. Newton had given of his Method, in drawing of Tangents giving the Method of Slusius, proceeding without taking away Fractions and Surds, and facilitating Quadratures; for him to tell the Germans that in the Year 1684, when he first published his Differential Method, he knew nothing more of Mr. Newton's invention, than that he had a certain Method of Tangents, is very extraordinary and wants an Explanation.

At that time he explained nothing more concerning his own Method, than how to draw Tangents and determine Maxima and Minima without taking away Fractions or Surds. He certainly knew that Mr. Newton's Method would do all this
this, and therefore ought in Candor to have acknowledged it. After he had thus far explained his own Method, he added that what he had there laid down were the Principles of a much sublimer Geometry, reaching to the most difficult and valuable Problems, which were scarce to be resolved without the Differential Calculus, AUT SIMILI, or another like it. What he meant by the Words AUT SIMILI was impossible for the Germans to understand without an Interpreter. He ought to have done Mr. Newton justice in plain intelligible Language; and told the Germans whose was the Methodus SIMILIS, and of what Extent and Antiquity it was, according to the Notices he had received from England; and to have acknowledged that his own Method was not so ancient. This would have prevented Disputes, and nothing less than this could fully deserve the Name of Candor and Justice. But afterwards, in his Answer to Mr. Fatio, to tell the Germans that in the Year 1684, when he first published the Elements of his Calculus, he knew nothing of a Methodus SIMILIS, nothing of any other Method than for drawing Tangents, was very strange and wanting an Explanation.

It lies upon him also to satisfy the World why, in his Answer to Dr. Wallis and Mr. Fatio, who had published that Mr. Newton was the oldest Inventor of that Method by many Years, he did not put in his Claim of being the oldest Inventor thereof, but staid till the old Mathematicians were dead, and then complained of the new Mathematicians as Novices; attacked Mr. Newton himself, and declined to contend with any Body else, notwithstanding that Mr. Newton in his Letter of Octob. 24. 1676 had told him, that for the sake of Quiet, he had Five Years before that time laid aside his Design of publishing what he had then written on this Subject, and has ever since industriously avoided all Disputes about Philosophical and Mathematical Subjects, and all Correspondence by Letters about those Matters, as tending to Disputes.
putes; and for the same Reason has forborne to complain of Mr. Leibnitz, until it was shewed him that he stood accused of Plagiarism in the Acta Lipsiae, and that what Mr. Keill had published was only in his Defence from the Guilt of that Crime.

It has been said the Royal-Society gave judgment against Mr. Leibnitz without hearing both Parties. But this is a Mistake. They have not yet given judgment in the Matter. Mr. Leibnitz indeed desired the Royal-Society to condemn Mr. Keill without hearing both Parties; and by the same sort of Justice they might have condemned Mr. Leibnitz without hearing both Parties; for they have an equal Authority over them both. And when Mr. Leibnitz declined to make good his Charge against Mr. Keill, the Royal-Society might in justice have censured him for not making it good. But they only appointed a Committee to search out and examine such old Letters and Papers as were still extant about these Matters, and report their Opinion how the Matter stood according to those Letters and Papers. They were not appointed to examine Mr. Leibnitz or Mr. Keill, but only to report what they found in the ancient Letters and Papers: and he that compares their Report therewith will find it just. The Committee was numerous and skilful and composed of Gentlemen of several Nations, and the Society are satisfied in their Fidelity in examining the Hands and other Circumstances, and in printing what they found in the ancient Letters and Papers so examined, without adding, omitting or altering any thing in favour of either Party. And the Letters and Papers are by order of the Royal-Society preserved, that they may be consulted and compared with the Commercium Epistolicum, whenever it shall be desired by Persons of Note. And in the mean time I take the Liberty to acquaint him, that by taxing the Royal-Society with Injustice in giving Sentence against him without hearing both Parties, he has transgressed one of their Statutes which makes it Expulsion to defame them.
The Philosophy which Mr. Newton in his Principles and Optiques has pursued is Experimental; and it is not the Business of Experimental Philosophy to teach the Causes of things any further than they can be proved by Experiments. We are not to fill this Philosophy with Opinions which cannot be proved by Phænomena. In this Philosophy Hypotheses have no place, unless as Conjectures or Questions proposed to be examined by Experiments. For this Reason Mr. Newton in his Optiques distinguished those things which were made certain by Experiments from those things which remained uncertain, and which he therefore proposed in the End of his Optiques in the Form of Queries. For this Reason, in the Preface to his Principles, when he had mention'd the Motions of the Planets, Comets, Moon and Sea as deduced in this Book from Gravity, he added: Utinam cetera Natura Phænomena ex Principiis Mechanicis eodem argumentandi genere derivare liceret. Nam multa me movent ut nonnihil suspicer ea omnia ex viribus quibusdam pendere posse, quibus corporum particula per causas nondum cognitas vel in se mutuo impelluntur & secundum figuras regulares coherent, vel ab invicem fugantur & recedent: quibus viribus ignotis Philosophi hactenus Naturam frustra tentarunt. And in the End of this Book in the second Edition, he said that for want of a sufficient Number of Experiments, he forbore to describe the Laws of the Actions of the Spirit or Agent by which this Attraction is performed. And for the same Reason he is silent about the Cause of Gravity, there occurring no Experiments or Phænomena by which he might prove what was the Cause thereof. And this he hath abundantly declared in his Principles, near the Beginning thereof, in these Words; Virium causas & sedes Physicas jam non expendō. And a little after: Voces Attractionis, Impulsus, vel Propensionis cujuscunque in centrum indifferenter & pro se mutuo promiscue usurpo, has Vires non Physice sed Mathematice tantum considerando. Unde caveat Lector ne per hujusmodi voces cogitete me speciem.
Speciem vel modum actionis, causamve aut rationem physicam aliquid definiere, vel Centris (quae sunt puncta Mathematica) vires verè & physicè tribuere, si forte aut Centra trahere aut vires Centrorum esse dixeris. And in the End of his Opticks: Qua causa efficiente ha attractiones [i.e. gravitas, visque magnetica & electrica] peragantur, hic non inquirio. Quam ego Attractionem appello, fieri sane potest ut ea efficiatur impulso vel ab aliquo modo nobis incognito. Hanc vocem Attractionis ita hic accipi velim ut in universum solummodo vim aliquam significare intelligatur qua corpora ad se mutuo tendant, cuicumque demum causae attribuenda sit illa vis. Nam ex Phænomenis Naturæ illud nos prius edocet oportet quam corpora se invicem attrahant, & quam sint leges & proprietates illius attractionis, quam in id inquirere par sit quamquam efficiente causa peragatur attractionis. And a little after he mentions the same Attractions as Forces which by Phænomena appear to have a Being in Nature, tho' their Causes be not yet known; and distinguishes them from occult Qualities which are supposed to flow from the specific Forms of things. And in the Scholium at the End of his Principles, after he had mentioned the Properties of Gravity, he added: Rationem vero harum Gravitatis proprietatum ex Phænomenis nondum potui deducere, & Hypotheses non singo. Quicquid enim ex Phænomenis non deducitur Hypothesis vocanda est; & Hypotheses seu Metaphysicæ seu Physicæ, seu Qualitatum occultarum, seu Mechanicæ, in Philosophia experimentalis locum non habent. — Satis est quod Gravitas revera existat & agat secundum leges a nobis expositas, & ad Corporum celestium & Maris nostri motus omnes sufficiat. And after all this, one would wonder that Mr. Newton should be reflected upon for not explaining the Causes of Gravity and other Attractions by Hypotheses; as if it were a Crime to content himself with Certainties and let Uncertainties alone. And yet the Editors of the Acta Eruditorum, (a) have told the World that Mr. Newton denies that the cause of Gravity is Mechanical, and that if the Spirit or Agent by which Electrical Attraction is performed, be not the Ether or subtile Matter of Cartes, it is less valuable than an Hypothesis, and perhaps may be the Hylarchic Principle of Dr. Henry Moor; and Mr. Leibnitz, (b) hath accused him of making Gravity a natural or essential Property of Bodies, and an occult Quality and Miracle. And by this sort of Railery they are persuading the Germans that Mr. Newton wants Judgment, and was not able to invent the Infinitesimal Method.

(a) Anno 1714, mensis Martii, p. 141, 142. (b) In tractatu de Bonitate Dei & in Epistolis ad D. Hartsoeker & alibi.
It must be allowed that these two Gentlemen differ very much in Philosophy. The one proceeds upon the Evidence arising from Experiments and Phænomena, and stops where such Evidence is wanting; the other is taken up with Hypotheses, and propounds them, not to be examined by Experiments, but to be believed without Examination. The one for want of Experiments to decide the Question, doth not affirm whether the Cause of Gravity be Mechanical or not Mechanical: the other that it is a perpetual Miracle if it be not Mechanical. The one (by way of Enquiry) attributes it to the Power of the Creator that the least Particles of Matter are hard: the other attributes the Hardness of Matter to conspiring Motions, and calls it a perpetual Miracle if the Cause of this Hardness be other than Mechanical. The one doth not affirm that animal Motion in Man is purely mechanical: the other teaches that it is purely mechanical, the Soul or Mind (according to the Hypothesis of an Harmonia Praefabilita) never acting upon the Body so as to alter or influence its Motions. The one teaches that God (the God in whom we live and move and have our Being) is Omnipresent; but not as a Soul of the World: the other that he is not the Soul of the World, but INTELLIGENTIA SUPRA MUNDANA, an Intelligence above the Bounds of the World; whence it seems to follow that he cannot do anything within the Bounds of the World, unless by an incredible Miracle. The one teaches that Philosophers are to argue from Phænomena and Experiments to the Causes thereof, and thence to the Causes of those Causes, and so on till we come to the first Cause: the other that all the Actions of the first Cause are Miracles, and all the Laws impressed on Nature by the Will of God are perpetual Miracles and occult Qualities, and therefore not to be considered in Philosophy. But must the constant and universal Laws of Nature; if derived from the Power of God or the Action of a Cause not yet known to us, be called Miracles and occult Qualities, that is to say, Wonders and Absurdities? Must all the Arguments for a God taken from the Phænomena of Nature be exploded by new hard Names? And must Experimental Philosophy be exploded as miraculous and absurd, because it asserts nothing more than can be proved by Experiments, and we cannot yet prove by Experiments that all the Phænomena in Nature can be solved by meer Mechanical Causes? Certainly these things deserve to be better considered.

ERRATA. Pag. 199. line. 14. put an Asterisk (*) after the Word Letter.