# Back Matter

**Author(s):** Anonymous  
**Year:** 1844  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London  
**Volume:** 134  
**Pages:** 33 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-108367  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/108367>  

---

INDEX

TO THE

PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS

FOR THE YEAR 1844.

A.

Analysis, on a general method in, 225. A. Preliminary theorems, 228. B. § 1. Theory of linear differential equations, 232. B. § 2. On the solution of linear differential equations by series, 234. B. § 3. On the solution of linear partial differential equations by series, 240. C. § 1. On the integration of linear differential equations in finite terms, 244. C. § 2. Some illustrations of a more general method of resolution, 257. D. § 1. Theory of series and of generating functions, 261. D. § 2. On the theory of generating functions as connected with equations of differences, 266. D. § 3. On the theory of generating functions as connected with equations of partial differences, 268. E. Application of the theory of series to the evaluation of certain definite integrals, 270. F. § 1. Theory of equations of finite differences, 276. F. § 2. On the solution of equations of finite differences in series, 277. F. § 3. On the solution of equations of differences in finite terms, 279. Postscript, 282.

Andrews (Thomas, M.D.). On the thermal changes accompanying basic substitutions, 21.

Animal heat, miscellaneous observations on, 57. I. On the temperature of the Pelamides, ibid. II. On the temperature of Man in advanced age, 59. III. On the effect of air of different temperatures on animal heat, 61. IV. On the effect of exercise on the temperature of the body, 62.

B.

Bakerian Lecture, 65.

Belemnites, a description of certain, preserved, with a great proportion of their soft parts, in the Oxford clay, at Christian-Malford, Wilts, 65.

Boole (George, Esq.). On a general method in analysis, 225.

D.

Daniell (J. Frederic, Esq., D.C.L.). Additional researches on the electrolysis of secondary compounds, 1.

Davy (John, M.D.). Miscellaneous observations on animal heat, 57.

Differences, equations of, on the theory of generating functions as connected with, 266.

equations of partial, on the theory of generating functions as connected with, 268.

finite, theory of equations of, 276.

, on the solution of equations of, in series, 277.

, on the solution of equations of, in finite terms, 279.
INDEX.

Differential equations, linear, theory of, 232.
———, on the solution of, by series, 234.
———, on the solution of partial, by series, 240.
———, on the integration of, in finite terms, 244.
———, illustrations of a general method of resolution, 257.

E.

Electrical and chemical actions which take place before and after completion of the voltaic circuit, an account of some experiments to test the relation of the, 39.
Electrolysis of secondary compounds, additional researches on, 1.
Entozoon folliculorum, a newly discovered parasitic animacule of the human skin, researches into the structure and development of, 305.

F.

Fownes (George, Esq.). On the existence of phosphoric acid in rocks of igneous origin, 53.
Functions, generating, theory of, 261.
———, as connected with equations of differences, 266.
———, of partial differences, 268.

G.

Gassiot (John P., Esq.). A description of an extensive series of the Water Battery; with an account of some experiments made in order to test the relation of the electrical and chemical actions which take place before and after the completion of the voltaic circuit, 39.

H.

Heat, Animal, miscellaneous observations on, 57. I. On the temperature of the Pelamides, ibid.
II. On the temperature of Man in advanced age, 59. III. On the effect of air of different temperatures on animal heat, 61. IV. On the effect of exercise on the temperature of the body, 62.

I.

Integrals, Definite, application of the theory of series to the evaluation of certain, 270.
Insecta, on the reproduction of lost parts in, 288.

M.

Magnetism, Terrestrial, contributions to. No. VI. Observations made on board Her Majesty's Ships Erebus and Terror, from June 1841 to August 1842, in the Antarctic Expedition under the command of Captain Sir James Clark Ross, R.N., F.R.S., 87. Deduction of the constants $a$ and $b$ in the corrections for the ship's attraction, 88. Deduction of the corrections, on account of the ship's attraction, for the observations of Inclination, 90. Index correction, 99. Observations of the Inclination, with needles whose poles were reversed, made at Garden Island, Sydney, 100; at the Bay of Islands, New Zealand, ibid; on the ice, 101; at
the Magnetic Observatory at Port Louis, in the Falkland Islands, *ibid.* Elements of calculation of the intensity observations, 107. General remarks, 116. Note by Mr. Archibald Smith, 117*. General Table of the Declinations observed on board Her Majesty's Ships Erebus and Terror, between May 1841 and August 1842, 120. General Table of Inclinations, 122. General Table of the Intensity of the Magnetic Force, from the observations, 125. Declinations observed on board Her Majesty's Ship Erebus, between June 1841 and August 1842, 127; on board Her Majesty's Ship Terror, 141. Observations of the Inclination made on board Her Majesty's Ship Erebus, between April 1841 and August 1842, 151; on board Her Majesty's Ship Terror, 169. Observations of the Intensity of the Magnetic Force, made on board Her Majesty's Ship Erebus, between April 1841 and August 1842, 196; on board Her Majesty's Ship Terror, 204.

Man, on the temperature of, in advanced age, 59.

Miller (W. A., Esq., M.D.). Additional researches on the electrolysis of secondary compounds, 1.

Myriapoda and Insecta, on the reproduction of lost parts in, 283. Myriapoda, 284. Insecta, 288.

N.

Nebulae, observations on some of the, 321.

Newport (George, Esq.). On the reproduction of lost parts in Myriapoda and Insecta, 283.

O.

Owen (Richard, Esq.). A description of certain Belemnites, preserved, with a great proportion of their soft parts, in the Oxford clay, at Christian-Malford, Wilts, 65.

P.

Pelamides, on the temperature of the, 57.

Phosphoric acid, on the existence of, in rocks of igneous origin, 53.

R.

Ross (Captain Sir James Clark, R.N.). Observations made on board Her Majesty's Ships Erebus and Terror, from June 1841 to August 1842, in the Antarctic Expedition under the command of, 87.

Rosse (the Earl of). Observations on some of the Nebulae, 321.

S.

Sabine (Lieut.-Colonel Edward, R.A.). Contributions to terrestrial magnetism, No. VI., 87. Series, theory of, 261. Application of to the evaluation of certain definite integrals, 270.

Simon (John, Esq.). On the comparative anatomy of the thyroid gland, 295.

T.

Temperature of Man in advanced age, on the, 59.

——— of the Pelamides, on the, 57.

——— of the Body, on the effects of exercise on the, 62.

MDCCCXLIV.
INDEX.

Thermal changes accompanying basic substitutions, on the, 21.
Thyroid Gland, on the comparative anatomy of the, 295. 1. Birds, ibid. 2. Reptiles, 296. 3. Fishes, 299.

W.

Water Battery, a description of an extensive series of the, 39.
Wilson (Erasmus). Researches into the structure and development of a newly discovered parasitic animalcule of the human skin—the Entozoon folliculorum, 305.
PRESENTS

RECEIVED BY

THE ROYAL SOCIETY,

WITH THE

NAMES OF THE DONORS.

From June 1842 to November 1843.

PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES.

Berlin:—

Transactions of the Royal Academy of Sciences for 1840. 4to. Berlin 1842.
Proceedings of the Royal Academy of Sciences of Berlin, April 1842 to March 1843. 8vo. Berlin 1842.

Birmingham Philosophical Institution—the Report presented by the Committee of Managers to the Annual General Meeting, held Oct. 26, 1842, with the List of Patrons, Trustees and Members; the Meteorological Journal kept at the Institution, &c. 8vo. Birmingham 1842.

Bologna:—Novi Commentarii Academiae Scientiarum Instituti Bononiensis. Tomus Quintus. 4to. Bononiae 1842.

Boston Society of Natural History:—Journal of Natural History, Vol. IV. No. 2. 8vo. Boston 1842.

Brussels:—

Nouveaux Mémoires de l'Académie Royale des Sciences et Belles Lettres. Tome XV. 4to. Bruxelles 1842.

Bulletin des Séances. Tome IX. Nos. 3 à 9. 8vo. Bruxelles 1842.

Cambridge:—Transactions of the Philosophical Society. Vol. VII. Part 3. 4to. Cambridge 1842.

Cornwall:—Polytechnic Society—Ninth Annual Report. 1841. 8vo. Falmouth.

Dublin:—

Royal Irish Academy Transactions. Vol. XIX. Part 2. 4to. Dublin 1843.
Proceedings. Vol. I. and Part 5. 8vo. Dublin 1841.

Edinburgh:—

Royal Society Transactions, Vol. XV. Part 2. 4to. Edinburgh 1842.
Proceedings, Nos. 19 and 20. 1841–42. 8vo. Edinburgh.

Glasgow:—Proceedings of the Philosophical Society. 4th Session, 1841–2. 8vo. Glasgow 1842.

Haarlem:—

Mémoires de la Société Hollandaise des Sciences. Tome II. 2me série. 4to. Haarlem 1842.
Extrait du Programme de la Société Hollandaise des Sciences à Haarlem, pour l'année 1842. (2 copies.) Folio sheets.

MDCCCXLIV.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Lisbon:
Memoirs of the Royal Academy of Sciences, Vol. XII. Part 2. 4to. Lisbon 1839.
Discourse delivered on the 22nd January 1843, at the public meeting of the Academy of Sciences of Lisbon. By J. J. de Costa de Macedo. 4to. Lisbon 1843.

London:
Agricultural Society (Royal). Journal, Vol. III. Parts 2, 3. Vol. IV. Part 1. 8vo. London 1843.
Astronomical Society. Memoirs, Vol. XII. XIII. and XIV. 4to. London 1842.
Proceedings, Nos. 25 and 26. 8vo. London 1842.
Asiatic Society of Great Britain. Journal, No. 13. 8vo. London 1842.
List of Members, Committees, &c. of. 8vo. London 1842.
British Association. Report of the Twelfth Meeting, held at Manchester in June 1842. 8vo. London 1843.
Report of the Meeting held at Liverpool in September 1837, Vol. VI. 8vo. London 1838.
Civil Engineers, Minutes of Proceedings of, for the Session of 1842. 8vo. London 1842.
Electrical Society. Proceedings, Parts 5—8. Svo. London 1842 and 1843.
Entomological Society. Transactions, Vol. III. Parts 2 and 3. 8vo. London 1841—42.
Geographical Society of London. Journal, Vol. III. and Vol. V. Part 1, 1833—35, Vol. XI. Part 2, 1841. Vol. XII. Parts 1 and 2. 8vo. London 1842.
Geological Society. Transactions, Second Series, Vol. VI. Part 2. 4to. London 1842.
Proceedings, Nos. 77 to 92, with Title and Index to Vol. III. as also a List of Members. 8vo. London 1842.
Linnaean Society. Transactions, Vol. XIX. Part 1. 4to. London 1842.
Proceedings, Nos. 13 and 14. 8vo. London 1842.
Numismatic Society. Numismatic Chronicle and Journal, No. 20. Edited by John Yonge Ackerman, F.S.A. 8vo. London 1843.
Royal Institute of British Architects of London. Transactions, Vol. I. Part 2. 4to. London 1842.
Society of Arts. Transactions, Vol. LIII. Part 2. 8vo. London 1841.
Statistical Society of London. Journal, Vol. V. Parts 2, 3. Vol. VI. Part 1. 8vo. London 1843.
Zoological Society:—Transactions, Vol. III. Part 1.
Proceedings, Part VIII. 1840. and Nos. 109 to 119.
Reports of the Council and Auditors, read at the Annual General Meeting, April 29, 1843, with a List of Members. 8vo. London 1843.
Lyons:—Société Royale d’Agriculture, etc. Annales des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles, d’Agriculture et d’Industrie. Tomes I, II. et III. royal 8vo. Lyons 1838—40.

DONORS.

The Academy.
The Society.
The Society.
The Society.
The Association.
The Institution.
The Society.
The Society.
The Society.
The Royal Institute.
The Society.
The Society.
The Society.
The Society.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Modena:—Memoirs of the Italian Society. Vol. XXII. Physical section. The Society.
4to. Modena 1841.

Moscow:—
Bulletin de la Société Impériale des Naturalistes de Moscou. Nos. 2, 3, 4, pour 1841, et 1 à 4, pour 1842. Svo. Moscou 1841–2.
Liste des Membres de la Société Impériale des Naturalistes de Moscou. 1842. 12mo. Moscou 1842.

Munich:—
Transactions of the Royal Academy of Sciences. Philosophical class. Vol. III. Part 2. 4to. München 1841.
Literary Notices of the same. Vols. XII., XIII., XIV. and XV. 4to. München 1841.

Naples:—Report of the Meetings and Labours of the Academy of Sciences. Nos. 1 and 2. 1842. 4to. Naples 1842.

Paris:—
Académie Royale des Sciences. Comptes Rendus Hebdomadaires des Séances. Tome XIV. Nos. 22 à 26 et Tome XV. Nos. 1 à 8, 9 à 26. 2me Semestre. 1842. et 1 à 9. Tom. XVI. 4to. Paris 1842.
Institut Royal. Mémoires de l'Académie des Inscriptions et Belles Lettres. Tome XV. 4to. Paris 1842.
Mémoires, Morales et Politiques de l'Institut de France. Tome I. Savants Étrangers. 4to. Paris 1841.
Mémoires, Morales et Politiques de l'Institut de France. Tome III. 4to. Paris 1841.
Mémoires présentés par Divers Savants. Sciences Mathématiques et Physiques. Tome VII. 4to. Paris 1841.
Mémoires. Tome XVIII. 4to. Paris 1842.
Notices et Extraits des Manuscrits de la Bibliothèque du Roi et autres Bibliothèques, publiés par l'Institut Royale de France, faisant suite aux notices et extraits lus au Comité établi dans l'Académie des Inscriptions et Belles Lettres. Tome XIV. Part 2. 4to. Paris 1841.
Société de Géographie, Bulletin, 2me série. Tome XVI. 8vo. Paris 1841. The Society.
Société Géologique, Bulletin; Table des matières et des auteurs pour le XIIme volume. 8vo. Paris 1840 à 1841.
Tom. XIII., XIV. 8vo. Paris 1842 à 1843.
Société de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle de Genève, Mémoires. Tome IXme. 4to. Genève, Paris 1842.

Philadelphia:—
American Philosophical Society Transactions. Vol. VIII. New series. The Society.
Part 1. 4to. Philadelphia 1841.
Proceedings, Nos. 20 to 23. 8vo. Philadelphia 1841–1842.

Siena:—Transactions of the Academy of Sciences. Vol. X. 4to. Siena 1841. The Society.

Stockholm:—
Transactions of the Royal Academy of Sciences of Sweden for 1840. 8vo. Stockholm 1842.
Report upon the State of Technology, by G. E. Pasch, for 1840. 8vo. Stockholm 1841.

a 2
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Report upon the State of Chemistry and Physic for 1840, by J. Berzelius. 2 vols. 8vo. Stockholm 1840.

Report upon the works published in Zoology between 1837 and 1840, by C. J. Sundewall. 8vo. Stockholm 1841.

Speech delivered before the Royal Academy of Sweden, by A. Anckarsward, the 6th of April 1842. 8vo. Stockholm 1842.

Washington:—Bulletin of the Proceedings of the National Institution for the Promotion of Science established at Washington in 1840. Vol. I. Nos. 1 and 2. 1842. 8vo. Washington 1841-1842.

AIKINSON (JOS.) Results of further Experiments on Shape and Situation of Rain-Gauges. 8vo. Harraby 1843.

AIRY (G. B.) On the Tides and Waves: from the Encyclopædia Metropolitana. 4to. London.

AKERMAN (J. Y.) The Forgeries of Public Money, being the substance of a Lecture delivered before the Numismatic Society, April 23, 1843. 8vo. London 1843.

ANONYMOUS:

Academy of Cimento, Florence. Essays and Experiments in Natural Philosophy, preceded by the history of the Academy. 4to. Firenze 1841.

Annuaire pour l'an 1842, présenté au Roi par le Bureau des Longitudes. 2e édition augmentée de notices scientifiques: par M. Arago. 12mo. Paris 1842.

A Transcript of a Treatise on Algorism or Arithmetic, from the unique MS. of the 15th century, preserved in the Public Library of the University of Cambridge. 4to. MS.

A Theory of the Structure of the Sidereal Heavens, including an explanation of the phenomena of the via lactea and nebulae, founded on a new astronomical doctrine; being a general explanation of the astral collocations upon geometrical principles, with plates of illustration. Part the First. 4to. London 1842.

Archives du Muséum d'Histoire Naturelle, publiées par les Professeurs-Administrateurs de cet établissement: Tome I. 2me, 3me et 4me Livraisons; Tome II. 1re, 2me et 3me Livraisons. Tome III. Livraisons 1, 2, 4to. Paris 1839-1841.

Bibliothèque de M le Baron Silvestre de Sacy. 8vo. Paris 1842.

Bulletin des Séances de la Société Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles: No. 1 à 4. 8vo.

Catalogue of the Fellows, Candidates and Licentiates of the Royal College of Physicians of London for 1842. 8vo. London 1842.

Catalogue of the Manuscript Music in the British Museum. 8vo. London 1842.

Catalogue of the Library of the Royal Astronomical Society, February 1838. 8vo. London 1838.

Catalogue des Livres, Dessins et Estampes de la Bibliothèque de feu M. S. B. Huzard, 3 Tomes. 8vo. Paris 1842.

Catalogue de 514 Étoiles doubles et multiples découvertes sur l'hémisphère céleste boréal par la grande lunette de l'observatoire central de Poulkova, et Catalogue de 256 Étoiles doubles principales où la distance des composantes

DONORS.

The Academy.

The Author.

The Institution.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

His Imperial and Royal Highness the Grand Duke of Tuscany.

James O. Halliwell, Esq., F.R.S.

The Author.

The Museum.

Messrs. Dulau & Co.

Prof. Wartmann.

The College.

The Trustees.

The Society.

M. L. Bouchard.

The author.
ANONYMOUS (continued).

est de 32 secondes à 2 minutes et qui se trouvent sur l'hémisphère boréal,
par W. Struve. folio. St. Pétersbourg 1843.

Chemical Experiments made in the Laboratory of the Utrecht High School.
Parts 3 and 4. Svo. Rotterdam 1842.

China, in a series of views displaying the scenery, architecture, social habits,
&c. of this ancient and exclusive Empire, by Thomas Allom, Esq., with
historical and descriptive notices by the Rev. G. N. Wright, M.A. Parts
1 to 8. 4to. London.

Collection of Notices respecting the History and Geography of the Ultrama-
rine Nations subjected to the Portuguese, Vol. VII. 4to. Lisbon 1841.

Connaissance des Temps ou des Mouvements Célestes, à l'usage des Astro-
nomes et des Navigateurs pour 1843, 1844 et 1845 ; publiée par le Bureau
des Longitudes. Svo. Paris 1840–1842.

Conjectures sur l'Apparition insolite de la Comète de Mars 1843 et sur la
Nature des Comètes en général ; par M. le C. de M. Svo. Tours 1843.

Description of the Skeleton of an extinct gigantic Sloth, Mylodon robustus,
with observations on the osteology, natural affinities, and probable habits
of the Megatherioid quadrupeds in general. By Richard Owen, F.R.S., &c.
published by direction of the Council of the Royal College of Surgeons.
4to. London 1842.

Description of the Collection of Ancient Marbles in the British Museum, with
Engravings. Part 9. 4to. London 1842.

Distribution of Prizes in the City of Paris, on the subject of Peace; President
the Marquis de la Rochefoucauld Liancourt. Svo. London 1842.

Epitome of the MS. found at Herculaneum by Lorenzo Blanco, Studying In-
terpreter in the Royal Office of Papyri. 12mo. Naples 1841.

Essai sur les Divisions Impaires de l'Angle par la Géométrie Plane.
— sur la Duplication du Cube par la Géométrie Plane.
— de Quadrature du Cercle par la Géométrie Plane.

Considérations sur la Solution des trois Problèmes précédents. Svo.

Etat de l'Instruction primaire en Belgique. Rapport décennal présenté aux
Chambres législatives, le 28 Janvier 1842. Par M. le ministre de l'intérieur.
Svo. Bruxelles 1842.

Examination Papers for the various degrees conferred by the University of
London for the year 1842. Svo. London 1842.

Explication de la Carte Géologique de la France, rédigée sous la direction de
M. Brochant de Villiers inspecteur général des Mines : par MM. Dufrénoy
et Elie de Beaumont. Tome I. avec une Carte. 4to. Paris 1841.

Eulogy of Count John Paradisi, written by the Associate and Secretary An-
tonio Lombardi. 4to. Modena 1841.

Fourth Annual Report of the Registrar-General of Births, Deaths and Mar-
riages, in England. Presented to both Houses of Parliament by command
of Her Majesty. (2 Copies.) Folio. London 1842.

Investigation upon the Survey of the Coast of the United States, and the Con-
struction of Standards of Weight and Measure, by a select Committee of
Congress, in 1842 : published by F. R. Hassler. Svo. Philadelphia 1843.

List of Additions to the Manuscripts in the British Museum in the years
1836–1840. Svo. London 1843.

The Editors.

The Publishers.

The Royal Academy of Sciences, Lisbon.

The Board of Longitude of Paris.

The Author.

The Council of the Royal College of Surgeons.

The Trustees of the British Museum.

Dr. John Lee, F.R.S.

The Author.

Baron T.F.D. d'Attel Lutange.

Professor Quetelet, Foreign Member R.S.

The University of London.

The Authors.

The Academy of Sciences, Modena

The Registrar-General.

The Publisher.

The Trustees of the British Museum.
ANONYMOUS (continued).

List of Additions to the Natural History, Antiquities and Prints of the British Museum in the years 1836–1839. 8vo. London 1843.

Lithographed Signatures of the Members of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, who met at Cambridge, June 1833, with a Report of the Proceedings at the public Meetings during the week; and an Alphabetical List of the Members. 4to. Cambridge 1833.

MASON'S Hygrometer. A table for obtaining the Dew-point and Moisture by inspection, the degree of the dry bulb being at the head of the column, and that of the wet bulb at the side: opposite the latter will be found the dew-point and moisture: by William Bone, Esq. 8vo. London 1843.

Mean results of the Thermometer, and the quantity of Rain for 1842, at Alford, about lat. $57^\circ 13'$ N., 420 feet above the level of the sea, and twenty-six miles inland from the sea at Aberdeen. Also, the number of fair days, and of days on which rain or snow fell, more or less: by the Rev. James Farquharson, M.A., F.R.S. A single slip. 12mo.

Metropolis. Summary of the Weekly Tables of the Mortality, for 1842. Large folio sheet.

Ordnance Survey. Astronomical Observations made with Ramoden's Zenith Sector, together with a Catalogue of the Stars which have been observed, and the amplitudes of the celestial arcs, deduced from the observations at the different stations: published by order of the Board of Ordnance. 4to. London 1842.

Observations Météorologiques faites à Nijné-Taguilok et à Vicimo-Outkinsk (Monts Oural). Gouvernement de Perm, année 1841. 8vo. Paris 1842.

Reply to Accusations upon the Priority of certain Discoveries by Sig. Professor Majocchi, addressed to Prof. Zantedeschi. 4to. Vicenza 1843.

Report of a Committee of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, on the Vital Statistics of Large Towns in Scotland (from the Report of the British Association for 1842). 8vo. London 1843.

Report on the Geology of the County of Londonderry and of parts of Tyrone and Fermanagh, examined and described under the authority of the Master General and Board of Ordnance, by J. E. Portlock, F.R.S., Captain R.E. 8vo. Dublin and London 1843.

Rules and Regulations for the Government of the Athenæum, for 1842. 12mo. London 1842.

Select Papyri in the Hieratic Character, from the Collections of the British Museum. fol. London 1842.

Six Lectures on Arithmetic; containing a Familiar Explanation of the Principles and Rationale of the General Rules of Arithmetic: designed for the Use of Normal Schools, &c.; by the Author of the New Introduction to the Mathematics, &c. 12mo. London 1842.

Some Remarks from the Editorial Columns of the Lancet of October 15, 1842, relating to an article by T. Wharton Jones, F.R.S., on the Corpuscles of the Blood. 8vo. London 1842.

Sur les Travaux récents qui ont eu pour objet l'Étude de la Vitesse de Propagation de l'Électricité. 8vo. Genève.

The Certainty of the Origin of Evil in the World. By a Layman. 8vo. London 1842.

The Trustees of the British Museum.

The Association.

The Author.

The Author.

The Registrar-General.

The Master General of the Ordnance, F.R.S.

The "Dépôt de la Marine."

The Author.

Lieut.-Col. W. H. Sykes, F.R.S.

The Master General of the Ordnance.

The Committee.

The Trustees of the British Museum.

The Author.

Dr. Martin Barry, F.R.S.

Prof. Wartmann.

The Rt. Hon. Sir Edward Hyde East, Bart., F.R.S.
PRESENTS.

ANONYMOUS (continued).

Twenty-ninth Annual Report of the Council of the Royal Geological Society of Cornwall, with the President's Address, and Papers and Notices read to the Society. 8vo. Penzance 1842.

The Nautical Almanac and Astronomical Ephemeris, for 1846: published by Order of the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty. 8vo. London 1842.

Voyages de la Commission Scientifique du Nord pendant les années 1835, 1836, 1838, 1839 et 1840: publiés par Ordre du Roi sous la Direction de M. Paul Gaimard, Président de la Commission. 8vo. Paris.

ARGELANDER (F. W. A.) Academical Dissertation upon the Fidelity of Bayer's Uranometria. 4to. Bonn 1842.

ART, WORKS OF.

An engraved portrait of Sir Isaac Newton from a painting by Vanderbank in the year 1726, which painting was lately presented to the Royal Society by Charles Vignolles, Esq.

A proof impression of the New London Bridge, engraved from the original drawing presented to the Institution of Civil Engineers, by B. Albano.

Large sheet.

Impression taken under the superintendence of Messrs. Mitchell, Heaton and Mitchell, Printers, Duke Street, Liverpool, at the identical Press at which Dr. Franklin worked in London as a Journeyman in the years 1725–1726 (in a frame). The Twelve Rules laid down by Benjamin Franklin, in his youth for his self-government.

Specimen de l'Imprimerie de Bachelier, Rue du Jardinet, 12. 4to. Paris 1842.

ATKINSON (Jos.) A Tabular View of the yearly Quantity of Rain which falls in the different parts of Great Britain. folio sheet.

BACHMAN (Rev. Jno.) Description of a New Species of Quadrupeds inhabiting North America, by J. J. Audubon, Esq., and the Rev. John Bachman, D.D. 8vo.

BAILY (Sam.) A Letter to a Philosopher in reply to some recent attempts to vindicate Berkeley's Theory of Vision, and in further elucidation of its unsoundness. 8vo. London 1843.

BATEMAN (Jas.) The Orchidaceæ of Mexico and Guatemala. folio. Lond.

BEAMISH (N. L.) Address delivered to the Cork Scientific and Literary Society, at the opening of the Session, October 6, 1842. 8vo. Cheltenham.

BENNETT (J. H.) On the Parasitic Fungi found growing in Living Animals. 4to. Edinburgh 1842.

BERNARD (C. A.) Les Bains de Brousse, en Bithynie (Turquie d'Asie), avec une vue des bains et un des environs de Brousse. 8vo. Constantinople 1842.

BESSEL (F. W.) Astronomical Investigations, Part 2. 4to. Königsberg 1842.

BINET (M. J.) Mémoire sur la Variation des Constantes Arbitraires dans les Formules Générales de la Dynamique et dans un Système d'Équations analogues plus étendues. 4to. Paris 1841.

Mémoires sur les Intégrales définis Eulériennes; et sur leur application à la théorie des suites, ainsi l'évaluation des fonctions de grands nombres. 4to. Paris 1840.

BLANCO (L.) Sennografia of the Papyri of Herculaneum. 8vo. Naples 1842.

Determination of some Archaeological Questions. 8vo. Naples 1842.

DONORS.

Sir Charles Lemon, Bart., F.R.S.

Lieut. Stratford, F.R.S.

The Publishers.

The Author.

Mr. John D. Roberton, Assist. Sec. R.S.

B. Albano, Esq.

W. Vaughan, Esq., F.R.S.

The Publisher.

The Author.

The Authors.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.
PRESENTS.

BOLZANO (B.) Essay upon an objective fundamental Doctrine of the Combination of Powers. 4to. Prag. 1842.

BONAPARTE (Charles Luciano Principe.) Observations upon the State of Zoology, as far as regards vertebrated animals, during the years 1840 and 1841. 8vo. Firenze 1842.

BÖTTICHER (C.) School of Ornamental Design, a course of study for drawing and designing ornaments. Oblong folio. Berlin 1838.

BROWN (Thos.) The Reminiscences of an Old Traveller throughout different parts of Europe, including historical details of the Russian Empire, and anecdotes of the Court. 8vo. Edinburgh 1843.

BUQUOY (G. G. von.) Prodromus of a new and improved mode of stating the higher Analytical Dynamics, Part 1. 4to. Prag. 1842.

BURGE (Wm.) The Temple Church; an account of its restoration and repairs. 8vo. London 1843.

BURGGRAVE (A.) Études sur André Vésale, précédées d'une notice historique sur sa vie et ses écrits; ouvrage publié sous le patronage des médecines Belges. 8vo. Gand 1841.

CANTON (T.) General Features of Chusan, with remarks on the Flora and Fauna of that island. 8vo. London 1842.

CASTELNAU (F. de.) Vues et Souvenirs de l'Amérique du Nord, livraison 1—3. 4to. Paris 1842.

CAUCHY (A.) Exercices d'Analyse et de Physique Mathématique, livraisons 13—18 de Tome II. 1841. 4to. Paris 1841.

CERQUERO (José Sanchez.) The Nautical and Astronomical Ephemeris, made at the Observatory of St. Fernando, for the years 1840, 1841, 1842, 1843 and 1844. 4to. Madrid 1837—1841.

CHASLES (M.) Histoire de l'Algèbre.—I. Sur l'époque où l'Algèbre a été introduite en Europe.—II. Sur les expressions Res et Census, et sur le nom de la science, Algebra et Almuchabala. 4to. Paris 1841.

Note sur la Nature des Opérations Algébriques (dont la connaissance a été attribuée, à tort, à Fibonacci). 4to. Paris 1841.

CHATELAIN (Le Chevalier.) Les Glorieuses, ou deux Fêtes et deux Victoires. 8vo. London 1843.

La Bienfaisance, Poëme. 8vo. London 1843.

CLARK (Sir James.) Remarks on Medical Reform; in a second letter addressed to the Right Hon. Sir James Graham, Bart. 8vo. London 1843.

CLAY (Chas.) Cases of Peritoneal Section, for the Extirpation of Diseased Ovaria by the large Incision from Sternum to Pubes, successfully treated. 4to. London 1842.

CRICHTON (Sir Alexander.) Commentaries on some doctrines of a dangerous tendency in Medicine, and on the general principles of safe practice. 8vo. London 1842.

CREUZE (A.) Papers on Naval Architecture, and other subjects connected with Naval Science: conducted by Wm. Morgan and Augustin Creuze. 3 vols. and No. 13. 8vo. London 1829—1832.

DANIELL (J. P.) An Introduction to the study of Chemical Philosophy; being a preparatory view of the forces which concur to the production of Chemical Phænomena (second edition). 8vo. London 1843.

DAUBENY (Chas.) Sketch of the Writings and Philosophical Character of

DONORS.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

Augustin Creuze, Esq., F.R.S.

The Author.

The Author.
PRESENTS.

Augustin Pyramus de Candolle, Professor of Natural History at the Academy of Geneva. 8vo. Edinburgh 1843.

DAUBENY (Chas.) On the Public Institutions for the advancement of Agricultural Science which exist in other countries, and on the plans which have been set on foot by individuals with a similar intent in our own. 8vo. London 1842.

Lecture on the application of Science to Agriculture, delivered before the Members of the Royal Agricultural Society of England on the 9th December 1841. 8vo. London 1842.

DAUSSY (M.) Mémoire Déscriptif de la Route de Teheran à Meched et de Meched à Jezd, reconnue en 1807; par M. Truillier, capitaine au Corps du Génie: suivi d'un mémoire sur les observations faites en 1807, par le Capitaine Truillier, dans son voyage en Perse, accompagné de quatre cartes itinéraires. 8vo. Paris 1841.

Table des Positions Géographiques des principaux Lieux du Globe: extrait de la Connaissance des Temps de 1844. 8vo. Paris.

DAVY (John.) On the Property belonging to Charcoal and Plumbago (in fine plates and particles) of transmitting Light. 4to. Edinburgh 1843.

Notes and Observations on the Ionian Islands and Malta, with some remarks on Constantinople and Turkey, and on the system of Quarantine as at present conducted. 8vo. London 1842.

DEMIDOFF (A de.) Voyage dans la Russie Méridionale et la Crimée, Tome II. et IV., avec des planches. 8vo et fol. Paris 1842.

DE MORGAN (A.) The Differential and Integral Calculus. 8vo. London 1842.

Part II. General Information on subjects of Chronology, Geography, Statistics, &c.

References for the History of the Mathematical Sciences. 12mo. London 1842.

DENT (E. J.) On the Errors of Chronometers, and explanation of a new construction of the Compensation-Balance. 8vo. London 1842.

On the Errors of the Chronometrical Thermometer. 8vo. London 1843.

DILLWYN (L. W.) Hortus Collinsonianus; an Account of the Plants cultivated by the late Peter Collinson, Esq., F.R.S., arranged alphabetically according to their modern names, from the catalogue of his garden and other manuscripts. Not published. 8vo. Swansea 1843.

DOLLARD (W.) General and Medical Topography of Kalee, Kemaoon and Shore Valley, with sketches of the Cantonments of Lohooghaut and Petoragurh, as also of the Roads, Rivers, Bungallows, &c. of part of the District. 8vo. Calcutta 1840.

DOPPLER (C.) On the Coloured Light of Double Stars, and of other Stars of the Heavens. 4to. Prag. 1842.

DOUGLAS (G.) An Anatomical Exposition of the Structure of the Human Body, 2 vols.; by James Benignus Winslow: translated from the French original; 5th edition. 8vo. Edinburgh 1763.

DUTROCHET (M.) Recherches Physiques sur la Force Épipolique, 2me partie. 8vo. Paris 1843.

ELLIS (Alex. J.) The Spirit of Mathematical Analysis, and its relation to a

DONORS.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Editor.

The Directors of the East India Company.

J. C. Carpue, Esq., F.R.S.

The Author.

The Translator.
logical system: by Dr. Martin Ohm; translated from the German. 8vo. London 1843.

ENCKE (J. F.) The Berlin Ephemeris for 1845. 8vo. Berlin 1842.

ERMAN (A.) Voyage round the Earth, through Northern Asia and the two Oceans, in 1828–1830.—2nd Division. Physical Observations.—Vol. II. Inclination and Intensity, Declination Observations taken at Sea, and Periodical Changes. 8vo. Berlin 1841.

FARADAY (M.) Chemical Manipulation; being instructions to Students in Chemistry on the methods of performing experiments of demonstration or research with accuracy and success: 3rd edition. 8vo. London 1842.

FERRARI (Jos.) Medical Statistics of Milan, from the 15th century to the present day. Vol. I. Parts 1 to 12; and Vol. II. Parts 1 to 6. 8vo. Milan 1838–1842.

FLORENS (P.) Recherches sur le Développement des Os et des Dents. 4to. Paris 1842.

FRANKENHEIM (M. L.) System of Crystals. 4to. Breslau 1842.

GAVIN (H.) On Feigned and Factitious Diseases, chiefly of Soldiers and Seamen; on the means used to simulate or produce them, and on the best modes of discovering impostors. 8vo. London 1843.

GIRALDUS (J. A.) Note sur la Terminaison des Bronches (with a plate). 8vo. Paris 1839.

GOBBI (F.) On the Dependence of the Physical Energy of Population upon the most simple elements of nature, with a special application to the population of Belgium. 4to. Leipzig and Paris 1842.

GODWIN (G.) Two Letters of certain Marks discoverable on the Stones of various Buildings erected in the Middle Ages; communicated to the Society of Antiquaries. 4to. London 1843.

GOULD (J.) A Century of Birds from the Himalaya Mountains; A Monograph of the Ramphastidae, or Family of Toucans; and A Monograph of the Trogonidae, or Family of Trogons. folio. The Birds of Australia, Nos. 7, 8, 9, 10, 11. folio. London 1842.

GRAVES (T.) Chapters on Roman and Canon Law. 4to. London.

GRAY (John E.) The Zoology of the Voyage of H.M.S. Sulphur, under the command of Captain Sir Edward Belcher, R.N., C.B., &c. during the years 1836–1842; edited by Richard B. Hinds, Esq., Surgeon attached to the Expedition. (No. 1, Mammalia.) 4to. London 1843.

Fauna of New Zealand. Materials towards a Fauna of New Zealand, Auckland Island, and Chatham Island.

Notes on the Materials at present existing towards a Fauna of New Zealand. 8vo.

Figures of Molluscous Animals, selected from various
PRESENTS.

Authors: etched for the use of Students, by Maria Emma Gray. Vol. I., with Explanations. 8vo. London 1842.

GRIFFITH (W. P.) Geometrical Proportion of Architecture. Grecian Architecture. Suggestions for the developing the Temples of Greece, by Geometrical Proportion; forming a sequel to all their harmony and beauty. folio. London 1843.

HALLIWELL (Jas. O.) The First Sketches of the Second and Third Parts of King Henry the Sixth: edited by James Orchard Halliwell, Esq., F.R.S., &c. 8vo. London 1843.

The Foundation Documents of Merton College, Oxford; collected by James Heywood, F.R.S.: edited by James Orchard Halliwell, Esq., F.R.S. 8vo. London 1843.

HANSEN (M.) Explanation of a mode of computing the Absolute Perturbations of the Heavenly Bodies which move in orbits of Elliptical Eccentricity.

HANSTEEN (C.) Of the Changes which the Magnetic Rod undergoes, arising both from the variation of Time and Temperature. 4to. Christiana 1842.

A Periodical Variation of the Horizontal Magnetic Intensity dependent upon the length of the ascending Moon's Nodes. 8vo. 1839.

HARE (Robert.) A Letter to Professor Whewell, in reply to certain allegations and arguments advanced in a pamphlet entitled, A Demonstration that all Matter is heavy. 8vo. Philadelphia.

An Effort to refute the Arguments advanced in favour of the Existence in the Amphido Salts, or Radicals, consisting, like Cyanogen, of more than one Element. 8vo. Philadelphia 1842.

Strictures on Professor Dove's Essay 'On the Law of Storms.' 8vo. Philadelphia.

Objections to Mr. Redfield's Theory of Storms, with some strictures upon his reasoning. 8vo. Philadelphia.

Additional Objections to Redfield's Theory of Storms. 8vo. Philadelphia.

HARRIS (W. Snow.) On the Nature of Thunder Storms; and on the means of protecting Buildings and Shipping against the destructive effects of Lightning. 8vo. London 1843.

HASSLER (F. R.) Report upon the Standards of the Liquid Capacity Measures of the system of uniform standards for the United States; with a description of a new original Barometer, and of the balance for adjusting the half bushels by their weight of distilled water. 8vo. Washington 1842.

HEMSÖ (J. G. de.) Observations Authentiques sur la Peste du Levant et sur la vertu spécifique de l'huile d'olive contre cette effrayante maladie rédigées pour la seconde réunion scientifique Italienne séant à Turin en Septembre 1840. 8vo. Florence 1841.

Notice sur la Race de Dromadaires existant dans le Domaine de San Rossore, près de Pise en Toscane. 8vo. Paris 1840.

The recent Progress of Geography. 8vo. Milan 1841.

HERSCHEL (Sir J. F. W.) On the Action of the Rays of the Solar Spectrum on the Daguerreotype Plate. 8vo. London 1843.
PRESENTS.

HEYGATE (James.) On Tic Douloureux, or Neuralgia, together with a few cursory remarks on intermittent fever, and its supposed connexion with the former. 8vo. Edinburgh 1836.

HITCHCOCK (E.) Final Report on the Geology of Massachusetts. 2 vols. 4to. Amherst 1841.

HOFLER (C.) Observations on the Causes of the Decline of German Commerce during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. 4to. München 1842.

HOGG (J.) A Catalogue of Sicilian Plants; with some remarks on the Geography, Geology, and Vegetation of Sicily. 8vo. London 1842.

HOLTZAPFFEL (C.) Turning and Mechanical Manipulation, intended as a work of general reference and practical instruction, on the Lathe, and the various mechanical pursuits followed by amateurs. 8vo. London 1843.

HOOD (C.) On some peculiar Changes in the internal structure of Iron, independent of and subsequent to the several processes of its manufacture. 12mo. London 1842.

On the Properties and Chemical Constitution of Coal; with remarks on the various methods of increasing its calorific effects, and preventing the loss which occurs during its combustion. 8vo. London 1841.

A Practical Treatise on warming Buildings by Hot Water; and an inquiry into the laws of radiant heat and conducted heat: to which are added, Remarks on Ventilation, and on the various methods of distributing Artificial Heat, and their effects on animal and vegetable physiology. 8vo. London 1837.

HOSKING (W.) Essay and Treatises on the Practice and Architecture of Bridges. 8vo. London 1842.

An Introductory Lecture, delivered at King's College, London, January 24, 1842, on the principles and practice of Architecture. To which are now added a few Notes, and some further remarks on the modern practice of competition. 8vo. London 1842.

HOSKINS (S. Elliott.) Tables for the extemporaneous application of Corrections for Temperature to Barometric Observations, deduced from the tables published in the Report of the Committee of Physics, Royal Society. 8vo. Guernsey 1842.

On the Chemical Discrimination of Vesical Calculi; by E. A. Scharling; translated from the Latin, with an Appendix, containing practical directions for the recognition of Calculi (with plates). 8vo. London 1842.

IRVINE (R. H.) Some Account of the General and Medical Topography of Ajmeer. 8vo. Calcutta 1841.

JACOBI (M. H.) Upon some Electromagnetical Apparatus. Upon my own Electromagnetical Labours in 1841. Description of an improved Voltameter. A Method for determining the Constants of the Voltaic Chain. Upon the Development of Galvanoplasticks. Notes upon Galvanic Conductors. 8vo. St. Petersburg 1841-1842.

Sur les Remarques de M. Becquerel relatives à ma mesure comparative de l'action de deux Couples Voltaïques, l'un cuivre-zinc, l'autre platine-zinc. 8vo. St. Petersbourg 1841.

JAY (W.) War and Peace; the evils of the first, and a plan for preserving the last. 8vo. London 1842.

DONORS.

The Author.

Edward Everett, Esq.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Translator.

The Directors of the East India Company.

The Author.

John Lee, F.R.S.
JEFFREYS (J.) Views upon the Statics of the Human Chest, Animal Heat, and Determinations of Blood to the Head. 8vo. London 1843.

JOHNSON (Cuthbert W.) The Farmer's Encyclopædia and Dictionary of Rural Affairs. 8vo. London 1842.

JOHNSON (M. J.) Astronomical Observations made at the Radcliffe Observatory, Oxford, in the year 1840. Vol. I. 8vo. Oxford 1842.

JONES (T. W.) Observations on some points in the Anatomy, Physiology and Pathology of the Blood. 8vo. London 1842.

JOURNALS.

The Annals of Electricity, Magnetism and Chemistry; and Guardian of Experimental Science. Nos. 45 to 55. Conducted by Wm. Sturgeon. 8vo. London 1842–1843.

The "Astronomische Nachrichten." Nos. 447 to 477. 4to. Altona 1843.

Athenæum for the year 1842.

The British and Foreign Medical Review, or Quarterly Journal, on Practical Medicine and Surgery. Nos. 27, 28, 29 and 30. Edited by John Forbes, M.D., F.R.S. 8vo. London 1843.

The Chemical Gazette; or Journal of Practical Chemistry, in all its applications to Pharmacy, Arts and Manufactures. No. 1. Conducted by W. Francis and H. Croft. 8vo. London 1842.

Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal. Nos. 34 to 38, 40 to 43, with Supplement to No. 42, and Nos. 123–128. 8vo. Calcutta 1842.

Journal de l'École Royale Polytechnique, publié par le Conseil d'instruction. Tome XVII. 4to. Paris 1841.

Journal of Natural Events in Physiology and Geology. Vol. IX. Parts 2–4. Vol. X. p. 1. Edited by Drs. Van Hoeven and Vriese. 8vo. Leiden 1842.

Literary Gazette for the year 1842. 4to. London 1842.

London, Edinburgh and Dublin Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science. 8vo. London 1842.

Journal of Meteorology and Magnetism. Parts 1–3. 1842. Edited by Dr. J. Lamont. 8vo. Munich 1842.

Microscopic Journal. Edited by George Busk. 8vo. London 1843.

Numismatic Chronicle and Journal of the Numismatic Society: edited by John Yonge Akerman, F.S.A. Nos. 12 to 19. 8vo. London 1841–1843.

Polytechnic Review, Nos. 1 to 6. 4to. London 1843.

Quarterly Journal of Meteorology and Physical Science, No. 6; edited by J. W. G. Gutch. 8vo. London 1843.

Tasmanian Journal of Natural Science, Agriculture, Statistics, &c. Vol. I. No. 2. 8vo. Van Diemen's Land 1842.

United Service Journal and the Repertory of Patent Inventions, for July and August 1842. 8vo. London 1842.

Zoologist: an Illustrated Monthly Magazine of Natural History and Journal for recording facts and anecdotes relating to Quadrupeds, Birds, &c. No. 1, edited by Edward Neuman. 8vo. London 1843.

KOENE (C. J.) Un Mot de Réponse à la Critique publiée sous le titre de Compte Rendu de l'ouvrage de M. L. de Koninck, M.D. &c. 8vo. Liège 1842.

KREIL (Karl.) Magnetical and Meteorological Observations made at Prague from 1st August 1840 to 31st July 1841. 4to. Prag. 1842.

DONORS.

The Author.

The Author.

The Radcliffe Trustees.

The Author.

The Editor.

Prof. Schumacher, For. Mem. R.S.

The Editor.

The Editor.

The Editors.

The Society.

L'École Polytechnique.

The Editors.

The Editor.

The Editor.

Sir John Franklin, F.R.S.

The Editors.

The Editor.

The Author.

The Author.
PRESENTS.

KUPFFER (A.) Annuaire Magnétique et Météorologique du Corps des Ingénieurs des Mines de Russie. 4to. St. Petersbourg 1842.

LADD (W.) An Essay on a Congress of Nations, for the adjustment of international disputes without resort to Arms. 8vo. London 1840.

LAMONT (Dr.) On the Magnetic Observations of the Royal Astronomical Observatory at Munich. 4to. München 1841.

Determination of the Horizontal Intensity of Terrestrial Magnetism. 4to. München 1842.

LARREY (M. le Baron.) Mémoire sur l'Extrication des Glandes Salivaires (la parotide et la sous-maxillaire), nécessitée par l'engorgement serofuleux et squirieux de ces glandes. 4to. Paris 1841.

LE COUTEUR (Col.) On the Use of the great Jersey Trench Plough, exhibited at the Society's Annual Meeting, in July 1841. 8vo. London 1842.

On the Culture of the Parsnip. 8vo. London 1840.

On Hoeing Wheat. 8vo. London.

On the Varieties, Properties, and Classification of Wheat. 8vo. Jersey.

Prize Essay. On pure and improved Varieties of Wheat lately introduced into England. 8vo. London 1839.

LEE (Isaac.) Observations on the genus Unio, together with descriptions of new species in the families Naiades, Colimacea, Lymnæana, Melaniana and Peristomiana. Vol. III. 4to. Philadelphia 1842.

Description of Nineteen new Species of Colimacea. 4to. 1840.

LETHEBY (H.) An Account of the Dissection of a Gymnotus Electricus. 8vo. London 1842.

LE VERRIER (U. J.) Mémoire sur les Variations Séculaires des Éléments des Orbites, pour les sept Planètes principales, Mercure, Vénus, la Terre, Mars, Jupiter, Saturne et Uranus. 8vo. Paris 1839.

Mémoire sur la Détermination des Inégalités Séculaires des Planètes. 8vo. Paris 1840.

Développements sur plusieurs points de la Théorie des Perturbations des Planètes. No. 1 à 3. 4to. Paris 1841.

LITTROW (C. L. von.) Annals of the Royal Observatory of Vienna. Vol. XXI. New Series. 4to. Wien 1841.

LLOYD (Rev. H.) On the Determination of the Intensity of the Earth's Magnetic Force in absolute measure. 4to. Dublin 1843.

Account of the Induction Inclinometer and of its adjustments. 8vo. London 1842.

LOCKHART (James.) Resolution of Equations by means of inferior and superior Limits. 4to. London 1842.

LONGCHAMPS (E. de Selys.) Faune Belge, 1re partie, indication méthodique des mammifères, oiseaux, reptiles et poissons observés jusqu'ici en Belgique. 8vo. Liège 1842.

LITTON (Victor.) Voyage en Islande et au Groënland exécuté pendant les années 1835 et 1836 sur la corvette la Recherche. 8vo and folio. Paris 1840.

McWILLIAM (J. O.) Medical History of the Expedition to the Niger during the years 1841–2, comprising an account of the Fever which led to its abrupt termination. 8vo. London 1843.

DONORS.

The Russian Minister of Finances.

Dr. John Lee, F.R.S.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

Dr. Pereira, F.R.S.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author, through Sir Wm. Burnett, Knt., F.R.
MAPS AND CHARTS.

Ordnance Maps, in continuation of the Trigonometrical Survey of Great Britain. Sheets. Nos. 80, 81 and 90. folio. London.

A Chorographical Chart of the Diocese of Mühl, in Austria, around the Enus: by B. Pillwein. Large folio sheet.

MARTIUS (Dr. von.) The Epidemic among Potatoes during recent years. 4to. München 1842.

MATTEUCCI (C.) Essai sur les Phénomènes Électriques des Animaux. 8vo. Paris 1840.

Deuxième Mémoire sur le Courant Électrique propre de la Grenouille et sur celui des animaux à sang chaud. 8vo. Paris 1841.

MÉNABRÉA (L. F.) Discours sur la Vie et les Ouvrages du Chevalier George Bidone, prononcé à l'Académie Royale des Sciences de Turin du 12 Décembre 1841. 4to. Turin 1842.

MIRBEL (M. de.) Nouvelles Notes sur le Cambium; extraites d'un Travail sur l'Anatomie de la Racine du Dattier. 4to. Paris 1842.

MORTON (S. G.) Crania Americana; or a Comparative View of the Skulls of various Aboriginal Nations of North and South America. folio. Philadelphia 1839.

Catalogue of Skulls of Man, and the inferior Animals, in the Collection of Samuel George Morton, M.D. 8vo. Philadelphia 1840.

Remarks on the so-called Pigmy Race of the Valley of the Mississippi. 8vo.

An Inquiry into the Distinctive Characteristics of the Aboriginal Race of America. 8vo. Boston 1842.

Some Remarks on the Ancient Peruvians. 8vo. Philadelphia 1842.

Description of some New Species of Organic Remains of the Cretaceous Group of the United States, with a Tabular View of the Fossils hitherto discovered in that Formation. 8vo. Philadelphia 1842.

MOSELEY (Rev. H.) The Mechanical Principles of Engineering and Architecture. 8vo. London 1843.

MÜLLER (J.) On the smooth Shark of Aristotle, and of the Difference between the Sharks and Rays in the Development of the Egg. folio. Berlin 1842.

MURCHISON (R. I.) Address delivered at the Anniversary Meeting of the Geological Society of London on the 17th February 1843. 8vo. London 1843.

NAMIAS (G.) Observations upon some Effects of Electricity upon the Animal Economy, and especially with reference to Human Maladies. 8vo. Venice 1841.

Academical Report made at the Sitting of the Athenæum of Venice. 4to. Venice.

O'SHAUGHNESSY (W. B.) Report on the Chemical Pathology of the Malignant Cholera, containing analyses of the blood, dejections, &c. of patients labouring under that disease in Newcastle and London, &c. 8vo. London 1832.

On the Preparations of the Indian Hemp, or Gunjah (Cannabis Indica), their effects on the animal system in health,
and their utility in the treatment of tetanus and other convulsive disorders
8vo. Calcutta 1839.

O'SHAUGHNESSY (W. B.) Memoranda relative to Experiments on the
Communication of Telegraphic Signals by induced Electricity. 8vo. Cal-
cutta 1839.

Memorandum of Experiments on the Explosion
of Gunpowder under water by the Galvanic Battery, with a notice of the
successful destruction of the wreck of the "Equitable," at Fultah Reach.
8vo. Calcutta 1840.

Notes of Lectures on Natural Philosophy. First
Series, On Galvanic Electricity. 12mo. Calcutta 1841.

The Bengal Dispensatory and Companion to
the Pharmacopoeia. 8vo. London 1842.

PASSERINI (Dr. C.) Notice of the Increase in Florence during 1837, 1838,
and 1839, of the American Bird Paroaria Cucullata, commonly called the
Cardinal. folio. Firenze 1841.

Observation upon two Noxious Insects. 12mo. Firenze
1840.

Observations upon the Larvae, Nymph and Habits of
Scolia Flavifrons. 4to. Pisa 1840.

Continuation of the Observations upon the Larvae of
Scolia Flavifrons. 4to. Firenze 1841.

PATERN0 (P. de Jovis da.) Upon the Cultivation of Grain, with observa-
tions referring to the kingdom of Naples. 8vo. Naples 1838.

PEACOCK (G.) A Treatise on Algebra. Vol. I. Arithmetical Algebra.
8vo. Cambridge 1842.

PEREIRA (J.) Lecture on the Elementary Composition of Foods, &c. &c.
8vo. London 1842.

PICTET (F. G.) Histoire Naturelle Générale et Particulière des Insectes
Neuroptères, livraisons 8—11. 8vo. Genève 1841.

PLANA (J.) Mémoire sur la Chaleur des Gaz Permanens. 4to. Turin 1842.

POLE (W.) An Investigation of the comparative Loss by Friction in beam and
direct action Steam Engines. 8vo. London 1843.

PONCELET (M.) Cours de Mécanique appliquée aux Machines, Sections
1 à 7. 2 vols. folio. (Lithographed.) folio. Paris 1836.

Mémoire sur la Stabilité des Revêtements de leurs Fon-
dations. (Two copies.) 8vo. Paris 1840.

PORTA (L.) Solution of an important Problem in Geology, with an exami-
nation of the flowing and ebbing of the Sea. 12mo. Naples 1839.

PORTER (G. R.) The Progress of the Nation, in its various social and eco-
nomic relations, from the beginning of the nineteenth century to the pre-
sent time, Sections 5 to 8. 8vo. London 1843.

POTTER (T. R.) The History and Antiquities of Charnwood Forest, with an
Appendix on the Geology, Botany, and Ornithology of the District. 4to.
London 1842.

POWELL (Rev. B.) On the Theory of Parallel Lines. 8vo. Oxford 1842.

POWER (Rev. J.) Mode of preventing the disastrous Effects of Collision;
preceded by an inquiry into the causes of the Brighton Railway accident.
4to. Cambridge 1842.
PRESENTS.

QUAIN (R.) The Anatomy of the Arteries of the Human Body, with its applications to Pathology and Operative Surgery in lithographic drawings, with practical commentaries. fol. and 8vo. London 1840.

QUETELET (A.) Sur la Différence des Longitudes des Observatoires Royaux de Greenwich et de Bruxelles, déterminée au moyen de chronomètres; par M.M. Sheepshanks et Quetelet. 4to. Bruxelles 1842.

Notes sur les Instruments employés dans les diverses Stations pour les Observations Météorologiques horaires correspondantes des Équinoxes et des Solstices. 4to. Bruxelles 1842.

Résumé des Observations Météorologiques et Magnétiques faites à des époques déterminées. 4to. Bruxelles 1842.

Annales de l'Observatoire Royale de Bruxelles, Tome II. 4to. Bruxelles 1842.

Recueil d'Observations sur différents Sujets des Sciences Physiques. 8vo. Bruxelles 1842.

Astronomie. Eclipse Solaire du 8 Juillet 1842; notice communiquée. 8vo. Bruxelles 1842.

Etudes sur l'Homme. 8vo. Bruxelles 1842.

RAMSAY (G.) An Inquiry into the Principles of Human Happiness and Human Duty, in two books. 8vo. London 1843.

REFIELD (W. C.) On Whirlwind Storms: with replies to the objections and strictures of Dr. Hare. 8vo. New York 1842.

Reply to Dr. Hare's further Objections relating to Whirlwind Storms; with some evidence of the whirling action of the Providence Tornado of August 1838. 8vo.

RICHARDSON (J.) Icones Piscium, or Plates of Rare Fishes. 4to. London 1843.

RIESS (P.) Sur les Figures Roriques et les Bandes Colorées produites par l'Électricité. 8vo. Genève.

ROBINSON (Rev. T. R.) Report made at the annual Visitation of the Armagh Observatory. 8vo. Armagh 1842.

ROBINSON (F.) Refutation of Lieut. Wellsted's Attack upon Lord Valen- tia's (now Earl of Mount Norris) work upon the Red Sea, with comparative diagrams, showing the inventions of Bruce. 4to. London 1842.

RÜMKER (Chas.) Upon the Meridian Places of 12,000 fixed Stars for the commencement of 1836, deduced from the Observations at the Hamburgh Observatory. Oblong. Hamburg 1843.

SAGRA (Ramon de la.) Notice sur l'Organisation Actuelle de l'Industrie en Belgique, et sur la nécessité de sa réforme; lus dans les séances des 6 et 20 Août 1842. 8vo. Paris 1842.

Rapports Statistiques déduits du Recensement de la Population des États Unis en 1840. Large sheet.

Histoire Physique, Politique et Naturelle de l'Île de Cuba: première partie. Histoire Physique et Politique. Tome I. 8vo. Paris 1842.

Observations et Comparaisons Statistiques sur la Mouvement de la Population de la Havane dans les cinq ans écoulés de 1825 à 1830. 8vo. Paris 1842.

MDCCCXLIV.

DONORS.

Thomas Graham, Esq., F.R.S.

Prof. Quetelet, For. Memb. R.S.

The Author.

The Author, through Dr. John Lee, F.R.S.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author, through Dr. Marshall Hall, F.R.S.

The same.
PRESENTS.

SCHMIDT (J.G.) Système d'Arcs Elliptiques pour faciliter le calcul intégral et pour constituer des nombres astronomique calculé. 4to. Berlin 1842.

SCHWANN (M.) Instructions pour l'Observation des Phénomènes Périodiques de l'Homme. 8vo. Bruxelles.

SCHWEIGGER (J. S. C.) Address to the President and Vice-Presidents of the Academy Leopoldino-Caroline Naturae Curiosorum. 4to. Halle.

Speech made at the Academy at Halle. 4to. Halle.

Introduction to Mythology, viewed with reference to Natural Science. 8vo. Halle 1836.

SERINGUE-TOME (N. C.) Le Petit Agriculteur, ou traité élémentaire d'agriculture. Vols. I., II. 12mo. Paris 1841.

SHUTTLEWORTH (J. G.) The Hydraulic Railway, being a carefully digested but plain statement of the advantages to be derived, and impediments removed, in establishing Hydraulic Propulsions on Railways. 8vo. London 1842.

SIMMS (F. W.) A Treatise on the Principles and Practice of Levelling, showing its application to purposes of civil engineering, particularly in the construction of roads; with Mr. Telford's rules for the same. 2nd edition. 8vo. London 1843.

SIMONOFF (—) Observations Astronomiques faites à l'Observatoire de l'Université de Kazan; premier cahier. 4to. Kazan 1842.

SMEE (A.) Elements of Electro-Metallurgy, or the art of working in metals by the galvanic fluid. Parts 4 to 9. 8vo. London 1842.

On the Treatment by Tartarized Antimony. 8vo. London.

On the Inhalation of Ammonia Gas as a Remedial Agent. 8vo. London 1843.

SMITH (J. Pye.) On the Relation between the Holy Scriptures and some Parts of Geological Science. Third edition. 12mo. London 1843.

SMITH (W.) Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology. Parts 1. and 2: edited by Wm. Smith, Ph. D. 8vo. London 1843.

SOLLY (Edward.) Rural Chemistry, an elementary introduction to the study of the science in its relation to Agriculture. 12mo. London 1843.

First Report of the Chemical Committee of the Horticultural Society of London, 1842. 8vo. London 1842.

SPENGEL (L.) On the Study of Rhetoric by the Ancients. 4to. München 1842.

STAMBUCCHI (R.) The Milan Astronomical Ephemeris for the year 1843. 8vo. Milan 1842.

STICHANER (J.) History of Bavarian Subsidien from 1740 to 1762. 4to. München 1842.

STOBELL (F. von.) Galvanography, a method to multiply in printing painted drawings, by means of copper plates. 4to. München 1842.

STRUVE (O.) Mémoire sur l'Évaluation Numérique de la Constante de la Précession des Équinoxes. 8vo. St. Peters 1841.

Report of the Academician Struve upon the Memoir of C. A. F. Peters upon the Constant Number of the Nutations deduced from the Right Ascension of the Polar Star in the Observatory at Dorpat, from 1822 to 1838. 4to. St. Petersburg.

Notice sur l'Instrument des Passages de Repsold, établi à
PRESENTS.

l'Observatoire de Poulkova dans le premier vertical, et sur les résultats que cet instrument a donnés pour l'évaluation de la constante de l'aberration. 4to. St. Petersburg.

STRUVE (O.) Determination of the Constants of Precession with respect to the peculiar motions of the Solar System. 4to. St. Petersburg 1842.

STRUVE (F. G. W.) Astronomical Observations made at the University of Dorpat, for the years 1831 to 1838. Vol. VIII. 4to. Dorpat 1839.

SYKES (Lieut.-Col. W. H.) Statistics of Civil and Criminal Justice in British India, chiefly from the year 1836 to 1840 inclusive. 8vo. London 1843.

Buddhism versus Brahmanism; extracted from the Asiatic Journal for June 1842. 8vo.

TAYLOR (Jas.) A Sketch of the Topography and Statistics of Dacca; printed by the order of Government. 8vo. Calcutta 1840.

THORNTON (Edw.) The History of the British Empire in India. Vol. III. and IV. 8vo. London 1843.

TILLEY (T. G.) Agricultural Chemistry rendered simple for Practical Purposes, illustrated with Notes. Parts 1 to 4. 8vo. Chelmsford 1843.

TRUDI (N.) Essay upon Polygons inscribed within circumscribed Conical Curves. 4to. Naples 1841.

The Problem of describing a Polygon within a Conical Curve. 4to. Naples 1841.

Theorem upon Conic Sections, useful for the resolution of difficult problems. 4to. Naples 1840.

TURNER (Edward,) Elements of Chemistry. 8vo. London 1842.

TWINING (W.) Some account of Cretinism and the Institution for its Cure, on the Abendberg, near Interlachen, in Switzerland. 12mo. London 1843.

VALENCIENNES (M. A.) Nouvelles Recherches sur le Nautilé Flambé (Nautilus pompilius, Lam.). 4to. Paris 1839.

WALCKENAER (M.) Mémoire sur la Chronologie de l'Histoire des Javanais, et sur l'Époque de la Fondation de Madjapahit. 4to. Paris 1842.

WALDHEIM (G. Fischer de.) Note upon the Eurypterus of Podolia and the Chirotherium of Livonia. 4to. Moscow 1839.

WALSHE (W. H.) The Physical Diagnosis of Diseases of the Lungs. 12mo. London 1843.

WALTHER (Dr.) Oration to the Memory of Dr. Dollinger. 4to. München 1841.

WELD (C. R.) Statistical Companion to the Pocket-Book. 18mo. London 1843.

WERNER (F.) Instruction for Gilding and Plating by means of Galvanism. 8vo. St. Petersburg 1842.

WILLIAMS (R. F.) Lives of the Princes of Wales, Heirs to the British Throne; with notices of the Court and Camp of England from the thirteenth century, Vol. I. 8vo. London 1843.

WILICH (C. M.) Income Tax Tables, showing at sight the Amount of Duty at 7d. and 3½d. in the pound; accompanied by a variety of statistical information, extracted from parliamentary documents. 8vo. London 1842.

Annual Supplement to Willich's Tithe Commutation Tables, 1843. 8vo. London 1843.

YOUNG (J. R.) Theory and Solution of Algebraical Equations of the higher orders (2nd edition). 8vo. London 1843.
From November 1843 to June 1844.

PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES.

Amsterdam:—
Transactions of the Royal Institution for 1841. 4to. Amsterdam.
Transactions of the Royal Institute of Sciences at Amsterdam. Parts 1 and 2. 4to. Amsterdam 1843.

Berlin:—
Proceedings of the Royal Academy of Sciences at Berlin, from May 1842 to December 1843. 8vo. Berlin.
Proceedings of the Royal Prussian Academy of Sciences at Berlin, for February 1844. 4to. Berlin.
Boston Journal of Natural History, No. 3, Vol. IV. 8vo. Boston.

Brussels:—
Bulletins de l'Académie Royale de Bruxelles. Nos. 10, 11 and 12 of Vol. IX., and Nos. 1 to 7 of Vol. X. 8vo. Bruxelles.
Annuaire de l'Académie Royale des Sciences et Belles Lettres de Bruxelles. 18mo. Bruxelles 1843.
Nouveaux Mémoires de l'Académie Royale de Bruxelles. Tome XVI. 4to. Bruxelles 1844.
Mémoires Couronnés et Mémoires des Savants Étrangers, publiées par l'Académie Royale de Bruxelles. 4to. Bruxelles 1844.

Calcutta:—
Journal of the Agricultural and Horticultural Society of India. Nos. 5, 6, 7 and 8. 8vo. Calcutta.

Copenhagen:—Transactions of the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences at Copenhagen. Part 9. 4to. Copenhagen.

Cornwall:—Transactions of the Royal Geological Society of Cornwall. Vol. V. 8vo. Falmouth 1844.

Dublin:—
Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy. Parts 2 and 3. 8vo. Dublin 1841.

Edinburgh:—
Royal Society Transactions. Vol. XV. Part 3. 4to. Edinburgh.

Geneva:—
Mémoires de la Société de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle de Genève. Tome X. 4to. Genève.

Glasgow:—Proceedings of the Philosophical Society, for 1841–2. 8vo. Glasgow.

Göttingen:—
Transactions of the Royal Society, for 1838–1841. 4to. Göttingen.

Helsingfors:—
Acta Societatis Scientiarum Fennicæ. Tomi Primi Fasciculus 3. 4to. Helsingfors 1842.

London:—
Agricultural Society (Royal). Journal, Vol. IV. Part 2. 8vo. London.

DONORS.

The Institution.
The Institute.
The Academy.
The Editors.
The Society.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Archæologia, published by the Society of Antiquaries of London. Vol. XXX. 4to. London 1844.

Society of Arts. Transactions, Vol. LIV. 8vo. London.

Asiatic Society (Royal). Journal, No. 14. 8vo. London.

British Association for the Advancement of Science. Report of the Thirteenth Meeting. 8vo. London 1844.

Memoirs and Proceedings of the Chemical Society. Parts 6, 7, 8. 8vo. London 1843.

Memoirs of the Chemical Society of London for 1841–1842, and 1842–1843. 8vo. London 1843.

Civil Engineers, Minutes of the Proceedings of, for 1842 and 1843. 8vo. London.

Council on Education, Minutes of the Committee, 1839 to 1842. 8vo. London 1841–2.

Entomological Society of London. Transactions, Part 4 of Vol. III. 8vo. London 1844.

Geological Society. Proceedings, Nos. 93, 94, 95, 96. 8vo. London 1844.

Linnaean Society. Transactions, Vol. XIX. Part 2. 4to. London 1844.

Royal Society of Literature. Transactions of. Second Series, Vol. I. 8vo. London 1844.

Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society of London. Transactions, 2 Series, Vol. VIII. 8vo. London 1844.

Microscopical Society of London. Transactions, Part 1. of Vol. I. 8vo. London 1844.

Statistical Society of London. Journal, Parts 3 and 4 of Vol. VI. 8vo. London 1843–4.

Lombardy:—Royal Institute. Journal of, Vols. I., II. and III. Milan 1842–3.

Royal Institute. Memoirs of, Vol. I. 4to. Milan 1844.

Lyons:—Annales des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles d'Agriculture et d'Industrie, publiées par la Société Royale d'Agriculture de Lyons. Tome IV. 8vo. Lyons 1838–1840.

Manchester:—Memoirs of the Literary and Philosophical Society. Part 1 of Vol. VII.

Moscow:—

Bulletin de la Société Impériale des Naturalistes de Moscou, Nos. 3, 4, 1842, and Nos. 1, 2, 3, 1843. 8vo. Moscou.

Nouveaux Mémoires de la Société Impériale des Naturalistes de Moscou. Tome VII. 4to. Moscou.

Naples:—Transactions of the Royal Academy of Sciences. Part 5 of Vol. I. 4to. Naples.

Paris:—

Notices et Extraits des Manuscrits de la Bibliothèque du Roi. Vol. XIV. 4to. Paris 1844.

Mémoires présentés par divers Savants à l'Académie Royale des Sciences. Vol. VIII. 4to. Paris 1844

Mémoires présentés par divers Savants à l'Académie Royale des Inscriptions. Vol. I. Second Series. 4to. Paris 1844.

DONORS.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Association.

The Society.

The Society.

The Institution.

The Committee of Council.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Academy.

The Institute.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Comptes Rendus Hebdomadaires des Séances de l'Académie des Sciences. Vol. XVI. 4to. Paris 1844.

Bulletins de la Société de Géographie. Tomes XVII. XVIII. et XIX. Svo. Paris 1844.

Mémoires de la Société Géologique de France. Tome V. Parts 1 and 2. 4to. Paris 1844.

Bulletins de la Société Géologique de France, from September 1842 to May 1843, November and December, and January 1844. 4to. Paris 1844.

Mémoire de l'Académie Impériale des Sciences de St. Pétersbourg. Vols. IV., V., VI., VII. 4to. St. Pétersbourg.

Recueil des Actes des Séances publiques de l'Académie Impériale des Sciences de St. Pétersbourg tenues le 31 Décembre 1841, et le 30 Décembre 1842. 4to. St. Pétersbourg.

Bulletin de la Classe Physico-Mathématique de l'Académie Impériale des Sciences de St. Pétersbourg. Tome I. 4to. St. Pétersbourg.

Philadelphia:

American Philosophical Society Transactions. Part 1 of Vol. IX. 4to. Philadelphia 1844.

Proceedings. Vol. III. Svo. Philadelphia 1844.

Journal of the Franklin Institute. Vols. I. III. and IV. Svo. Philadelphia 1844.

Rotterdam:

New Transactions of the Academy of Sciences. Part 8. 4to. Rotterdam 1841.

Venice:

Transactions of the Athenæum, 1841. 4to. Venice 1844.

ANONYMOUS:

A Descriptive Index of the Contents of Five Manuscript Volumes illustrative of the History of Great Britain, in the Library of Dawson Turner, Esq. Svo. London 1844.

Archives du Muséum d'Histoire Naturelle publiées par les Professeurs Administrateurs de cet Établissement. Part 4 of Vol. II., and Part 3 of Vol. III. 4to. Paris 1839 to 1843.

Catalogue of the Library of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society. Svo. London 1844.

Catalogue of the Reptiles contained in the Museum at Fort-Pitt, Chatham. Svo. Chatham 1843.

Connaissance des Temps ou des Mouvements Célestes pour l'an 1846. Svo. Paris 1844.

Fifth Annual Report of the Registrar-General of Births, Deaths and Marriages. folio. London 1843.

Lectures on Polarized Light, delivered before the Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain, 1843. Svo. London 1844.

Letters and State Papers, chiefly addressed to George, Earl of Melville, Secretary of State for Scotland, 1689–1691. 4to. Edinburgh 1843.

List of the Specimens of Mammalia in the British Museum. Svo. London 1844.

DONORS.

The Institute.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Academy.

The Society.

The Institution.

The Society.

The Athenæum.

D. Turner, Esq.

The Publishers.

The Society.

Sir James McGrigor.

Bureau des Longitudes.

The Registrar-General.

The Author.

The Hon. W. L. Melville.

The Trustees of the British Museum.
PRESENTS.

ANONYMOUS (continued).
List of the Oriental MSS. purchased in Turkey. 4to. London 1844.
Meteorological Observations made at the Royal University of Kasan, 1835–1836.
Observations des Marées faites à la mûre et au bassin dans le port de Brest, 1807–1835, publiées par le Bureau des Longitudes. 4to. Paris 1843.
Observations on Days of Unusual Magnetic Disturbance, made at the British Colonial Magnetic Observatories under the Departments of the Ordnance and Admiralty, printed by the British Government under the Superintendence of Lieut.-Col. Sabine, R.A. 4to. London 1843.
Quelques Recherches sur la Chaleur Spécifique, par M.M. les Professeurs de la Rive et Marcey. Svo. Genève 1844.
Report on the Medical Topography and Statistics of the Presidency Division of the Madras Army, compiled from the Records of the Medical Board Office. 8vo. Madras 1842.
Report of the Medical Topography and Statistics of the Centre Division of the Madras Army, compiled from the Records of the Medical Board Office. 8vo. Madras 1842.
Supplementary Additions to the Certainty of the Origin of Evil in the World, by a Layman. 12mo. London 1844.
The Light Houses of the British Islands. 8vo. London 1844.
Tide Tables for the English and Irish Ports, 1844.
Views in China, Parts 18 to 20. 4to. London 1844.

ANSTED (D. T.) Geology, Introductory, Descriptive and Practical. 8vo. London 1844.

ART, WORKS OF.
A Marble Bust of the late Davies Gilbert, Esq., P.R.S., by Richard Westmacott, Esq., F.R.S.
A Medallion of the late Major Rennell, F.R.S.
A Solar Dial cut in Stone, made by the hand of Sir Isaac Newton, when a boy, and taken out of the Wall of the Manor House at Woolsthorpe, Lincolnshire, in which he was born.

ATKINS (Mrs.) Photographs of British Algæ. 4to. Parts 1, 2 and 3.
BADANO (G.) New Researches upon the Resolution of Algebraic Equations.
BAILIE (J. K.) Fasciculus Inscriptionum Græcarum. 4to. London 1844.
BARLOW (E.) An exact Survey of the Tide, with 12 curious maps. 8vo. London 1717.
BARLOW (Rev. John.) On Man's Power over himself to prevent or control Insanity. 12mo. London 1843.
BECQUEREL (M.) Recherches sur la Chaleur Animale.
BERZELIUS (Jac.) Annals of Mineralogy for 1841, 1842, 1843.
BLAND (W.) Suppression of Spontaneous Combustion in Wool Ships. 8vo. Sydney 1843.
BOHEMAN (C. H.) Annals of Zoology for 1840–1842.
BOLYAY (M.) An Essay on Pure Mathematics. 2 vols. 8vo. 1833.
BOUSSINGAULT (J. B.) Économie Rurale, considérée dans ses Rapports avec la Chimie, la Physique et la Météorologie. 2 vols. 8vo. Paris 1844.
BRANDRETH (T. S.) A Dissertation on the Metre of Homer. 8vo. London 1844.

DONORS.

Dr. Lee, F.R.S.
Le Bureau des Longitudes.
The Master General of the Ordnance.
The Authors.
The Directors of the East India Company.
The Author.
The Admiralty.
The Admiralty.
Messrs. Fisher and Son.
The Author.
The Baroness Bassett.
Lady Rodd.
Rev. C. Turnor, F.R.S.
The Authoress.
The Author.
The Author.
Sir John Lubbock, Bart.
The Author.
The Author.
J. F. Stanford, Esq., F.R.S.
The Author.
The Author.
PRESENTS.

BROWN (Thos.) The Reminiscences of an Old Traveller throughout different parts of Europe. Svo. Edinburgh 1843.

BULARD (A.) De la Peste Orientale pendant les années 1833 à 1839. Svo. Paris 1839.

CAPELLI (G.) and BUZZETTI (C.) Effemeridi Astronomiche di Milano per l'anno 1844. Svo. Milano 1844.

CASTELNAU (F. de.) Essai sur le Système Silurien de l'Amérique Septentrionale. 4to. Paris 1843.

CAUCHY (A.) Exercices d'Analyse, et de Physique Mathématique, Parts 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, and 24, of Vol. II. 4to. Paris 1840.

CHALLIS (Rev. James.) Astronomical Observations made at the Observatory of Cambridge for 1840–1841. 4to. Cambridge 1837.

CHASLES (C.) Sur le Passage du premier livre de la Géometrie de Boèce relatif à un nouveau système de Numération. 4to. Bruxelles 1836.

Mémoire sur la Géometrie des Hindous. 4to. Bruxelles 1836.

Mémoire sur l'Attraction des Ellipsoïdes.

CHIMENTI (Antonio.) Elementi di Chimica, Vol. I. Svo. Roma 1842.

COSTA (O. G.) Corrispondenza Zoologica, redatta da. Svo. Napoli 1839.

CRADDOCK (T.) Description of a Patent Universal Condensing Engine. 4to. London 1844.

CURLING (T. B.) Case of a Girl who voided from the Urethra a number of Entozootic Worms not hitherto described, with an account of the Animals. Svo. London 1844.

DAUBENY (Dr.) A Lecture on Institutions for the better Education of the Farming Classes. Svo. Oxford 1844.

DAVY (Dr. John.) On the Specific Gravity of certain Substances commonly considered lighter than water. 4to. Edinburgh 1843.

DENISON (J.) A New Theory of Gravitation.

ENCKE (J. F.) Astronomisches Jahrbuch für 1846. Svo. Berlin 1844.

FEATHERSTONHAUGH (G.) Excursions through the Slave States in the United States of America, with Sketches of Popular Manners, and Geological Notices. 2 vols. Svo. London 1844.

FINCHAM (John.) A Treatise on Masting Ships and Mast-making. Svo. London 1843.

FORBES (J. D.) Travels through the Alps of Savoy and other parts of the Pennine Chain, with Observations on the Phenomena of Glaciers. Svo. Edinburgh 1843.

FORBES (Prof.) An Inaugural Lecture on Botany. Svo. London 1843.

FORSTER (T.) Essai sur l'Influence des Comètes sur les Phénomènes de la Terre. Svo. Bruges 1843.

FOWLER (R.) Observations on the Mental State of the Blind, Deaf and Dumb.

FREYCINET (Louis de.) Voyage autour du Monde, fait par ordre du Roi; publiée sous les auspices de l'Amiral Duperrey. 4to. Paris 1826.

FUSS (P. H.) Correspondance Mathématique et Physique de quelques célèbres Géomètres du dix-huitième siècle. 2 vols. Svo. St. Pétersbourg 1843.

GAIMARD (M. Paul.) Voyage en Islande et au Groënlande pendant les années 1835–36. 4to. Paris 1838.

DONORS.

The Author.

Madame Bulard.

The Authors.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

Signor Costa.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.
GAUDICHARD (M. Charles.) Premières Notes relatives à la protestation faites dans la séance du 12 Juin 1843, à la suite de la lecture du Mémoire de M. de Mirbel, ayant pour titre, "Recherches Anatomiques et Physiologiques sur quelques Végétaux Monocotylés." 8vo. Paris 1844.

GILCHRIST (W.) Practical Memoirs on the History and Treatment of the Diseases of the Elephant and Camel. folio. Calcutta 1842.

GIVRY (M.) Instructions Nautiques; partie des Côtes Septentrionales de France comprise entre la pointe de Barfleur et Dunkerque. 4to. Paris 1844.

GODWIN (George, jun.) Architecture as a Fine Art: its State and Prospects in England.

GOULD (John.) The Birds of Australia, Parts 14 and 15. large folio. London 1844.

GRAVES (J. T.) Cato. 8vo. London 1844.

GRAY (John E.) The Zoology of the Voyage of H.M.S. Erebus and Terror, Part 1, Mammalia. 4to. London 1844.

The Zoology of the Voyage of H.M.S. Sulphur, under the command of Captain Sir E. Belcher, R.N. (Mammalia.) 4to. London.

HALL (Marshall.) Memoirs on some Principles of Pathology in the Nervous System.

HANSEN (P. A.) Inquiry into the absolute Disturbance in Ellipses of various Eccentricities and Inclinations.

HAY (R. D.) Proportion, or the Geometric Principle of Beauty analysed. 4to. Edinburgh 1844.

HENDERSON (Thomas.) Astronomical Observations made at the Royal Observatory, Edinburgh, for 1839. 4to. Edinburgh 1841.

HINDS (R. B.) The Regions of Vegetation, being an analysis of the distribution of Vegetable Forms over the surface of the globe. 8vo. London 1843.

HOGG (John.) Letters from Abroad to a Friend at Cambridge. 8vo. London 1844.

HOOKER (Sir W.) Notes on the Botany of the Antarctic Voyage; conducted by Captain Sir James Ross, R.N., F.R.S. 4to. London 1844.

HOPKINS (E.) On the Connexion of Geology with Terrestrial Magnetism. 8vo. London 1844.

HORANINOW (P.) The Elements of Botany. 8vo. 1841.

A Treatise on Mineralogy.

Theoria Sylphidis ejusque Therapiæ Universæ.

A Treatise on Epidemic Cholera.

HULST (F.) Memoir of the Life of René Sluse.

JOHNS (J. W.) The Anglican Cathedral Church of Saint James, Mount Zion, Jerusalem. folio. London 1844.

JOHNSON (M. J.) Astronomical Observations made at the Radcliffe Observatory, Oxford, in 1841. 8vo. Oxford 1842.

JOHNSTON (James.) Elements of Agricultural Chemistry and Geology. 12mo. Edinburgh 1844.

JONES (T. W.) Report on the present state of Knowledge of the Nature of Inflammation. 8vo. London 1844.

MDCCCXLIV.
PRESENTS.

JOURNALS.

Astronomische Nachrichten, Nos. 462 to 492. 4to. Altona.
Athenæum for July 1843 to May 1844. 4to. London 1843–44.
British and Foreign Medical Review, Nos. 31, 32, 33. 8vo. London.
Electrical Magazine, Nos. 1 to 4. 8vo. London.
Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal, No. 58, and Nos. 134 to 141. 8vo. Calcutta.
London, Edinburgh and Dublin Philosophical Magazine to June 1844. 8vo. London 1844.
London Physiological Journal for October and November 1843 and February 1844.
Monthly Review, January 1844. 8vo. London.
Numismatic Chronicle, Nos. 21, 22 and 23. 8vo. London.
Polytechnic Review for April and May. 4to. London.
Simmond’s Colonial Magazine, No. 1. 8vo. London.
Tasmanian Journal, Nos. 6 and 7. 8vo. Hobarton.
The Phytologist, a Botanical Journal, December 1843. 8vo. London.
The Zoologist, Nos. 3 to 12. 8vo. London.

JUSSIEU (M. de.) Monographie des Malpighiacées, ou exposition des caractères de cette famille de plantes. 4to. Paris 1844.

KERIGAN (Thos.) A Practical Treatise on the Eclipses of the Sun and Moon. 8vo. London 1844.

KOPS (J.) et MIGUEL (F. A. W.) Flora Batava. Amsterdam.

KREIL (Karl.) Magnetic and Meteorological Observations at Prague from 1st August 1841 to the 31st July 1842. 4to. Prague 1844.

LAMONT (J.) Results of Magnetic Observations made at Munich during 1840, 1841, 1842. 4to. Munich 1841.

LAWSON (Henry.) On the Arrangement of an Observatory. 8vo. Bath 1844.

LITROW (C. L. Edlen von.) Annals of the Observatory at Vienna, 1843. 4to. Vienna 1844.

MÄDLER (J. H.) Astronomical Observations made at the Royal Observatory, Dorpat, from October 1840 to the end of 1841.

MAITLAND (Rev. S. R.) A List of the Early Printed Books in the Archepiscopal Library at Lambeth. 8vo. London 1843.

MANTELL (G. A.) The Medals of Creation, or First Lessons in Geology. 2 vols. 8vo. London 1844.

MAPS AND CHARTS.

Ordnance Sheet Maps, Nos. 88 and 89.
The Charts published by the Admiralty in 1843.

MOIVRE (A. de.) Annuities on Lives. 8vo. London 1743.

MOORE (George.) An Essay on those Powers of the Mind which have reference to Architectural Study and Design. 4to. London 1844.

MÜHRY (E.) Stephen’s Code of English Law, translated into German. 2 vols. 8vo. Göttingen 1843.

MÜLLER (J.) On the Structure of the Pentacrinus Caput Medusæ. fol. Berlin 1843.

DONORS.

Prof. Schumacher, F.M.R.S.
The Editor.
J. Forbes, Esq., F.R.S.
The Editor.
The Asiatic Society of Bengal.
Richard Taylor, Esq.
The Editor.
The Numismatic Society.
The Editor.
Sir John Franklin.
Edward Newman, Esq.
The Editor.
The Author.
The Author.
H.M. the King of Holland.
The Author.
The Author.
The Author.
The Archbishop of Canterbury.
The Author.
The Ordnance.
The Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty.
Sir J. W. Lubbock, Bart.
The Author.
The Translator.
The Author.
PRESENTS.

NAMIAS (Signor.) On certain Effects of Electricity upon the Diseases of Mankind.

NEWPORT (George.) An Address delivered at the Anniversary Meeting of the Entomological Society of London, on the 22nd of January 1844. 8vo. London 1844.

PADULA (F.) Memoria su i Solidi Caricati verticalmente, e su i Solidi di Ugual Resistenza. 4to. Naples 1837.

Raccolta di Probleme di Geometria. 4to. Naples 1838.

PALMA (J.) Mémoire sur la Découverte de la Loi du Choc directe des Corps durs.

PEREIRA (Jonathan.) A Treatise on Food and Diet. 8vo. London 1843.

PETERS (A. F.) Numerus Constans Nutationis ex Ascensionibus Rectis Stellæ Polaris in Specula Dorpatensi, anno 1822 ad 1838.

PHILLIPS (John.) Memoirs of William Smith, LL.D. 8vo. London 1844.

PLANTAMOUR (E.) Observations Astronomiques faites à l'Observatoire de Genève, dans 1842.

PULLEN (Joseph.) Lecture read on the opening of Gresham College, Nov. 2, 1843. 8vo. London 1844.

QUAIN (Richard.) The Anatomy of the Arteries of the Human Body, in lithographic drawings, with practical commentaries. Large folio. London.

QUETELET (A.) Annuaire de l'Observatoire Royale de Bruxelles, 1843. 12mo. Bruxelles 1843.

Observations des Phénomènes Périodiques. 4to. Bruxelles 1844.

Résumé des Observations Magnétiques et Météorologiques, 1842. 4to. Bruxelles 1842.

sur l'Emploi de la Boussole dans les Mines. 8vo. Bruxelles 1843.

REFIELD (W. C.) Whirlwinds excited by Fire, with further notices of the Tyfoons of the China Sea. New York.

RIDDELL (Lieut.) Magnetical Instructions for the Use of Portable Instruments. 8vo. London 1844.

RIGG (Robert.) Experimental Researches, Chemical and Agricultural, showing Carbon to be a compound body made by plants, and decomposed by putrefaction. 8vo. London 1844.

RONALDS (F.) and BLAIR (Alexander.) Sketches at Carnac in 1834, or Notes concerning the present state of some reputed Celtic Antiquities in that and the adjoining Communes, with a Postscript containing an account of the Great Roche aux Fées or Essé, &c. 4to. London 1836.

SABBATINI (M.) Della Verità e della Leggè.

SCUDAMORE (Sir C.) A Medical Visit to Gräfenberg in 1843, for the purpose of investigating the merits of the Water Cure Treatment. 8vo. London 1843.

SHAW (A.) An Account of Sir Charles Bell's Classification of the Nervous System. 8vo. London 1844.

SMITH (W.) Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology, Parts 3, 4, 5. 8vo. London 1844.

SOLLY (Edward.) Experiments on the Inorganic Constituents of Plants. 4to. London 1844.

DONORS.

The Author.

The Entomological Society.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

Thomas Graham, Esq.

The Author.

Francis Ronalds, Esq., F.R.S.

The Author.

The Editor.

The Author.
PRESENTS.

SPRY (H.) Suggestions for the Improvement of the Agricultural and Commercial Resources of India. 8vo. Calcutta 1841.

STRUVE (M. W.) Table des Positions Géographiques principales de la Russie.

Sur le Coefficient Constant dans l'Aberration des Étoiles Fixes.

TAYLOR (John.) Poems. 8vo. London.

THORNTON (Edward.) The History of the British Empire in India. Vol. V. 8vo. London 1844.

TOYNBEE (Joseph.) Second Series of Observations on the Pathology of the Ear. 8vo. London 1844.

TRAVERS (Benjamin.) The Physiology of Inflammation and the Healing Process. 8vo. London 1844.

VENTURUCCI (Dottor G.) Sulla Rabbia communicata. 8vo. Firenze 1843.

VETCH (Capt.) Inquiry into the Means of establishing a Ship Navigation between the Mediterranean and the Red Sea. 8vo. London 1843.

VIREY (J.) De la Physiologie dans ses Rapports avec la Philosophie. 8vo. Paris 1834.

WALDHEIM (G. F. de.) Revue des Fossiles du Gouvernement de Moscou.

WARTMANN (E.) Mémoire sur le Daltonisme. 4to. Paris 1844.

WEBSTER (John.) Observations on the Admission of Medical Pupils to the Wards of Bethlem Hospital, for the purpose of studying Mental Diseases. 8vo. London 1842.

WEDDLE (Thomas.) A New Simple and General Method of solving Numerical Equations of all Orders. 4to. London 1842.

WELD (C. R.) The Statistical Companion to the Pocket Book, corrected to May 1844. 18mo. London.

WERGELAND (H.) On the Impediments to Agricultural Improvements in Norway, and the Remedies proposed.

WILSON (John.) The Parsi Religion as contained in the Zand Avastā. 8vo. Bombay 1843.

WILLICH (C. M.) Annual Supplement to Tithe Commutation Tables, 1844. 8vo. London.

YOUNG (J. R.) Researches on the Imaginary Roots of Equations. 8vo. London 1844.

DONORS.

The Directors of the East India Company.

The Author.

The Author.

Messrs. W. H. Allen and Co.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.