# Observations on Vision. By Thomas Young. Communicated by Richard Brocklesby, M. D. F. R. S.

**Author(s):** Thomas Young, Richard Brocklesby  
**Year:** 1793  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London  
**Volume:** 83  
**Pages:** 15 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-106816  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/106816>  

---

XVI. Observations on Vision. By Thomas Young. Communicated by Richard Brocklesby, M.D., F.R.S.

Read May 30, 1793.

It is well known that the eye, when not acted upon by any exertion of the mind, conveys a distinct impression of those objects only which are situated at a certain distance from itself; that this distance is different in different persons, and that the eye can, by the volition of the mind, be accommodated to view other objects at a much less distance: but how this accommodation is effected, has long been a matter of dispute, and has not yet been satisfactorily explained. It is equally true, though not commonly observed, that no exertion of the mind can accommodate the eye to view objects at a distance greater than that of indolent vision, as may easily be experienced by any person to whom this distance of indolent vision is less than infinite.

The principal parts of the eye, and of its appertenances, have been described by various authors. Winslow is generally very accurate; but Albinus, in Musschenbroek's Introductio, has represented several particulars more correctly. I shall suppose their account complete, except where I mention or delineate the contrary.

The first theory that I find of the accommodation of the
eye is Kepler's. He supposes the ciliary processes to contract the diameter of the eye, and lengthen its axis, by a muscular power. But the ciliary processes neither appear to contain any muscular fibres, nor have they any attachment by which they can be capable of performing this action.

Descartes imagined the same contraction and elongation to be effected by a muscularity of the crystalline, of which he supposed the ciliary processes to be the tendons. He did not attempt to demonstrate this muscularity, nor did he enough consider the connection with the ciliary processes. He says, that the lens in the mean time becomes more convex, but attributes very little to this circumstance.

De la Hire maintains that the eye undergoes no change, except the contraction and dilatation of the pupil. He does not attempt to confirm this opinion by mathematical demonstration; he solely rests it on an experiment which has been shewn by Dr. Smith to be fallacious. Haller too has adopted this opinion, however inconsistent it seems with the known principles of optics, and with the slightest regard to hourly experience.

Dr. Pemberton supposes the crystalline to contain muscular fibres, by which one of its surfaces is flattened while the other is made more convex. But, besides that he has demonstrated no such fibres, Dr. Jurin has proved that a change like this is inadequate to the effect.

Dr. Porterfield conceives that the ciliary processes draw forward the crystalline, and make the cornea more convex. The ciliary processes are, from their structure, attachment, and direction, utterly incapable of this action; and, by Dr.
Mr. Young's Observations on Vision.

Jurin's calculations, there is not room for a sufficient motion of this kind, without a very visible increase in the length of the eye's axis: such an increase we cannot observe.

Dr. Jurin's hypothesis is, that the uvea, at its attachment to the cornea, is muscular, and that the contraction of this ring makes the cornea more convex. He says, that the fibres of this muscle may as well escape our observation, as those of the muscle of the interior ring. But if such a muscle existed, it must, to overcome the resistance of the coats, be far stronger than that which is only destined to the uvea itself; and the uvea, at this part, exhibits nothing but radiated fibres, losing themselves, before the circle of adherence to the sclerotica, in a brownish granulated substance, not unlike in appearance to capsular ligament, common to the uvea and ciliary processes, but which may be traced separately from them both. Now at the interior ring of the uvea, the appearance is not absolutely inconsistent with an annular muscle. His theory of accommodation to distant objects is ingenious, but no such accommodation takes place.

Musschenbroek conjectures that the relaxation of his ciliary zone, which appears to be nothing but the capsule of the vitreous humour where it receives the impression of the ciliary processes, permits the coats of the eye to push forwards the crystalline and cornea. Such a voluntary relaxation is wholly without example in the animal economy, and were it to take place, the coats of the eye would not act as he imagines, nor could they so act unobserved. The contraction of the ciliary zone is equally inadequate and unnecessary.

Some have supposed the pressure of the external muscles, especially the two oblique muscles, to elongate the axis of the
eye. But their action would not be sufficiently regular, nor sufficiently strong; for a much greater pressure being made on the eye, than they can be supposed capable of effecting, no sensible difference is produced in the distinctness of vision.

Others say that the muscles shorten the axis: these have still less reason on their side.

Those who maintain that the ciliary processes flatten the crystalline, are ignorant of their structure, and of the effect required: these processes are yet more incapable of drawing back the crystalline, and such an action is equally inconsistent with observation.

Probably other suppositions may have been formed, liable to as strong objections as those opinions which I have enumerated.

From these considerations, and from the observation of Dr. Porterfield, that those who have been couched have no longer the power of accommodating the eye to different distances, I had concluded that the rays of light, emitted by objects at a small distance, could only be brought to foci on the retina by a nearer approach of the crystalline to a spherical form; and I could imagine no other power capable of producing this change than a muscularity of a part, or the whole, of its capsule.

But in closely examining, with the naked eye in a strong light, the crystalline from an ox, turned out of its capsule, I discovered a structure which appears to remove all the difficulties with which this branch of optics has long been obscured. On viewing it with a magnifier, this structure became more evident.

The crystalline lens of the ox is an orbicular, convex,
transparent body, composed of a considerable number of similar coats, of which the exterior closely adhere to the interior. Each of these coats consists of six muscles, intermixed with a gelatinous substance, and attached to six membranous tendons. Three of the tendons are anterior, three posterior; their length is about two thirds of the semi-diameter of the coat; their arrangement is that of three equal and equidistant rays, meeting in the axis of the crystalline; one of the anterior is directed towards the outer angle of the eye, and one of the posterior towards the inner angle, so that the posterior are placed opposite to the middle of the interstices of the anterior; and planes passing through each of the six, and through the axis, would mark on either surface six regular equidistant rays. The muscular fibres arise from both sides of each tendon; they diverge till they reach the greatest circumference of the coat, and, having passed it, they again converge, till they are attached respectively to the sides of the nearest tendons of the opposite surface. The anterior or posterior portion of the six viewed together, exhibits the appearance of three penniformi-radiated muscles. The anterior tendons of all the coats are situated in the same planes, and the posterior ones in the continuations of these planes beyond the axis. Such an arrangement of fibres can be accounted for on no other supposition than that of muscularity. This mass is inclosed in a strong membranous capsule, to which it is loosely connected by minute vessels and nerves; and the connection is more observable near its greatest circumference. Between the mass and its capsule is found a considerable quantity of an aqueous fluid, the liquid of the crystalline.

MDCCXCIII.
I conceive, therefore, that when the will is exerted to view an object at a small distance, the influence of the mind is conveyed through the lenticular ganglion, formed from branches of the third and fifth pairs of nerves, by the filaments perforating the sclerotica, to the orbiculus ciliaris, which may be considered as an annular plexus of nerves and vessels; and thence by the ciliary processes to the muscle of the crystalline, which, by the contraction of its fibres, becomes more convex, and collects the diverging rays to a focus on the retina. The disposition of fibres in each coat is admirably adapted to produce this change; for, since the least surface that can contain a given bulk is that of a sphere, (Simpson's Fluxions, p. 486) the contraction of any surface must bring its contents nearer to a spherical form. The liquid of the crystalline seems to serve as a synovia in facilitating the motion, and to admit a sufficient change of the muscular part, with a smaller motion of the capsule.

It remains to be inquired, whether these fibres can produce an alteration in the form of the lens sufficiently great to account for the known effects.

In the ox's eye, the diameter of the crystalline is 700 thousandths of an inch, the axis of its anterior segment 225, of its posterior 350. In the atmosphere it collects parallel rays at the distance of 235 thousandths. From these data we find, by means of Smith's Optics, Art. 366, and a quadratic, that its ratio of refraction is as 10000 to 6574. Hauksbee makes it only as 10000 to 6832,7, but we cannot depend on his experiment, since he says that the image of the candle which he viewed was enlarged and distorted; a circumstance that he does not explain, but which was evidently occasioned by the
greater density of the central parts. Supposing, with Hauksbee and others, the refraction of the aqueous and vitreous humours equal to that of water, viz. as 10000 to 7465, the ratio of refraction of the crystalline in the eye will be as 10000 to 8806, and it would collect parallel rays at the distance of 1226 thousandths of an inch: but the distance of the retina from the crystalline is 550 thousandths, and that of the anterior surface of the cornea 250; hence (by Smith, Art. 367,) the focal distance of the cornea and aqueous humour alone must be 2929. Now, supposing the crystalline to assume a spherical form, its diameter will be 642 thousandths, and its focal distance in the eye 926. Then, disregarding the thickness of the cornea, we find (by Smith, Art. 370,) that such an eye will collect those rays on the retina, which diverge from a point at the distance of 12 inches and 8 tenths. This is a greater change than is necessary for an ox's eye, for if it be supposed capable of distinct vision at a distance somewhat less than 12 inches, yet it probably is far short of being able to collect parallel rays. The human crystalline is susceptible of a much greater change of form.

The ciliary zone may admit of as much extension as this diminution of the diameter of the crystalline will require; and its elasticity will assist the cellular texture of the vitreous humour, and perhaps the gelatinous part of the crystalline, in restoring the indolent form.

It may be questioned whether the retina takes any part in supplying the lens with nerves; but, from the analogy of the olfactory and auditory nerves, it seems more reasonable to suppose that the optic nerve serves no other purpose than that of conveying sensation to the brain.
Although a strong light and close examination are required, in order to see the fibres of the crystalline in its entire state, yet their direction may be demonstrated, and their attachment shewn, without much difficulty. In a dead eye the tendons are discernible through the capsule, and sometimes the anterior ones even through the cornea and aqueous humour. When the crystalline falls, it very frequently separates as far as the centre into three portions, each having a tendon in its middle. If it be carefully stripped of its capsule, and the smart blast of a fine blow-pipe be applied close to its surface in different parts, it will be found to crack exactly in the direction of the fibres above described, and all these cracks will be stopped as soon as they reach either of the tendons. The application of a little ink to the crystalline is of great use in shewing the course of the fibres.

When first I observed the structure of the crystalline, I was not aware that its muscularity had ever been suspected. We have, however, seen that Descartes supposed it to be of this nature; but he seems to think that the accommodation of the eye to a small distance is principally performed by the elongation of the eye's axis. Indeed as a bell shakes a steeple, so must the coats of the eye be affected by any change in the crystalline; but the effect of this will be very inconsiderable; yet, as far as it does take place, it will co-operate with the other change.

But the laborious and accurate Leeuwenhoek, by the help of his powerful microscopes, has described the course of the fibres of the crystalline, in a variety of animals; and he has even gone so far as to call it a muscle*; but no one has pur-

* Now if the cristaline humour (which I have sometimes called the crist. muscle)
sued the hint, and probably for this reason, that from examining only dried preparations, he has imagined that each coat consists of circumvolutions of a single fibre, and has entirely overlooked the attachment of the fibres to tendons; and if the fibres were continued into each other in the manner that he describes, the strict analogy to muscle would be lost, and their contraction could not have that effect on the figure of the lens, which is produced by help of the tendons. Yet notwithstanding neither he, nor any other physiologist, has attempted to explain the accommodation of the eye to different distances by means of these fibres, still much anatomical merit must be allowed to the faithful description, and elegant delineation, of the crystallines of various animals, which he has given in the Philosophical Transactions, Vol. XIV. p. 780, and Vol. XXIV. p. 1723. It appears, from his descriptions and figures, that the crystalline of hogs, dogs, and cats, resembles what I have observed in oxen, sheep, and horses; that in hares and rabbits, the tendons on each side are only two, meeting in a straight line in the axis; and that in whales they are five, radiated in the same manner as where there are three. It is evident that this variety will make no material difference in the action of the muscle. I have not yet had an opportunity of examining the human crystalline, but from its readily dividing into three parts, we may infer that it is similar to that of the ox. The crystalline in fishes being spherical, such a change as I attribute to the lens in quadrupeds cannot take place in that class of animals.

It has been observed that the central part of the crystalline in our eyes, &c. Phil. Trans. Vol. XXIV. p. 1729. — Crystallinum musculum, alias humorem crystallinum dictum, &c. Leeuwenh. op. omn. I. p. 102.
becomes rigid by age, and this is sufficient to account for presbyopia, without any diminution of the humours; although I do not deny the existence of this diminution, as a concomitant circumstance.

I shall here beg leave to attempt the solution of some optical queries, which have not been much considered by authors.

1. Musschenbroek asks, What is the cause of the lateral radiations which seem to adhere to a candle viewed with winking eyes? I answer, the most conspicuous radiations are those which, diverging from below, form, each with a vertical line, an angle of about seven degrees; this angle is equal to that which the edges of the eyelids when closed make with a horizontal line; and the radiations are evidently caused by the reflection of light from those flattened edges. The lateral radiations are produced by the light reflected from the edges of the lateral parts of the pupillary margin of the uvea, while its superior and inferior portions are covered by the eyelids. The whole uvea being hidden before the total close of the eyelids, these horizontal radiations vanish before the perpendicular ones.

2. Some have inquired, Whence arises that luminous cross, which seems to proceed from the image of a candle in a looking-glass? This is produced by the direction of the friction by which the glass is polished: the scratches placed in a horizontal direction, exhibiting the perpendicular part of the cross, and the vertical scratches the horizontal part, in a manner that may easily be conceived.

3. Why do sparks appear to be emitted when the eye is rubbed or compressed in the dark? This is Musschenbroek's
fourth query. When a broadish pressure, as that of the finger, is made on the opaque part of the eye in the dark, an orbicular spectrum appears on the part opposite to that which is pressed: the light of the disc is faint, that of the circumference much stronger; but when a narrow surface is applied, as that of a pin's head, or of the nail, the image is narrow and bright. This is evidently occasioned by the irritation of the retina at the part touched, referred by the mind to the place from whence light coming through the pupil would fall on this spot; the irritation is greatest where the flexure is greatest, viz. at the circumference, and sometimes at the centre, of the depressed part. But in the presence of light, whether the eye be open or closed, the circumference only will be luminous, and the disc dark; and if the eye be viewing any object at the part where the image appears, that object will be totally invisible. Hence it follows, that the tension and compression of the retina destroys all the irritation, except that which is produced by its flexure; and this is so slight on the disc, that the apparent light there is fainter than that of the rays arriving at all other parts through the eyelids. This experiment demonstrates a truth, which may be inferred from many other arguments, and is indeed almost an axiom, viz. that the supposed rectification of the inverted image on the retina does not depend on the direction of the incident rays. Newton, in his sixteenth query, has described this phantom as of pavo-nian colours, but I can distinguish no other than white; and it seems most natural that this, being the compound or average of all existing sensations of light, should be produced when nothing determines to any particular colour. This average seems to resemble the middle form, which Sir Joshua Rey-
NOLDS has elegantly insisted on in his discourses; so that perhaps some principles of beautiful contrast of colours may be drawn from hence, it being probable that those colours which together approach near to white light will have the most pleasing effect in apposition. It must be observed, that the sensation of light from pressure of the eye subsides almost instantly after the motion of pressure has ceased, so that the cause of the irritation of the retina is a change, and not a difference, of form; and therefore the sensation of light appears to depend immediately on a minute motion of some part of the optic nerve.

If the anterior part of the eye be repeatedly pressed, so as to occasion some degree of pain, and a continued pressure be then made on the sclerotica, while an interrupted pressure is made on the cornea; we shall frequently be able to observe an appearance of luminous lines, branched, and somewhat connected with each other, darting from every part of the field of view, towards a centre a little exterior and superior to the axis of the eye. This centre corresponds to the insertion of the optic nerve, and the appearance of lines is probably occasioned by that motion of the retina which is produced by the sudden return of the circulating fluid, into the veins accompanying the ramifications of the arteria centralis, after having been detained by the pressure which is now intermitted. As such an obstruction and such a re-admission must require particular circumstances, in order to be effected in a sensible degree, it may naturally be supposed that this experiment will not always easily succeed.
Explanation of the Figures.

Tab.XX. fig. 1. A vertical section of the ox's eye, of twice the natural size.

A. The cornea, covered by the tunica conjunctiva.
BCB. The sclerotica, covered at BB by the tunica albuginea, and tunica conjunctiva.
DD. The choroid, consisting of two laminas.
EE. The circle of adherence of the choroid and sclerotica.
FG, FG. The orbiculus ciliaris.
HI, HK. The uvea: its anterior surface the iris; its posterior surface lined with pigmentum nigrum.
IK. The pupil.
HL, HL. The ciliary processes, covered with pigmentum nigrum.
MM. The retina.
N. The aqueous humour.
O. The crystalline lens.
P. The vitreous humour.
QR, QR. The zona ciliaris.
RS, RS. The annulus mucosus.

Fig. 2. The structure of the crystalline lens, as viewed in front.
Fig. 3. A side view of the crystalline.