# Back Matter

**Author(s):** Anonymous  
**Year:** 1863  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London  
**Volume:** 153  
**Pages:** 32 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-108816  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/108816>  

---

INDEX

TO THE

PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS

FOR THE YEAR 1863.

A.

Airy (G. B.). On the Strains in the Interior of Beams, 49.
——— On the Diurnal Inequalities of Terrestrial Magnetism, as deduced from observations made at the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, from 1841 to 1857, 309.
——— First Analysis of One Hundred and Seventy-seven Magnetic Storms, registered by the Magnetic Instruments at the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, from 1841 to 1857, 617.
Archeopteryx, 33 (see Owen).
Atmalysis, 396.

B.

Beale (L. S.). On the Structure and Formation of the so-called Apolar, Unipolar, and Bipolar Nerve-cells of the Frog, 543.—Conclusions, 568; explanation of plates, 570.
Boole (G.). On the Differential Equations of Dynamics. A sequel to a Paper on Simultaneous Differential Equations, 485.
Brodie (Sir B. C.). On the Peroxides of the Radicals of the Organic Acids, 407.—Preparation of peroxide of barium, 408; peroxide of benzoyl, 409; of cumenyl, 413; of acetyl, 413; of butyl, 415; of camphoryl, 417.
Bunsen (R.) and Roscoe (H. E.). Photo-chemical Researches.—Part V. On the Direct Measurement of the Chemical Action of Sunlight, 139.

C.

Calculus of symbols, 517.
Cayley (A.). On Skew Surfaces, otherwise Scrolls, 453.

MDCCCLXIII.
INDEX.

Chambers (C.). On the Nature of the Sun's Magnetic Action upon the Earth, 503.—Note by Professor W. Thomson, 515.

Chemical constitution, relation of, to the refraction, dispersion, and sensitiveness of liquids, 325 (see Gladstone).

Conducting-power of thallium and iron (electric), influence of temperature on, 369.

Cotarnine, composition of, 345; decompositions and derivatives of, 359; constitution of, 366.

Crookes (W.). On Thallium, 173.—Occurrence, extraction, &c., 173; physical characteristics, 178; chemical properties, 184; position of thallium amongst elementary bodies, 187; analytical notes, 189.

D.

Dale (T. P.) and Gladstone (J. H.). Researches on the Refraction, Dispersion, and Sensitiveness of Liquids, 317 (see Gladstone).

Debus (H.). On some Compounds and Derivatives of Glyoxylic Acid, 437.

Depth of sea, deduced from tidal observations, 252, 260.

Differential equations of dynamics, 485 (see Boole).

Diffusion of gases, 385.

Dispersion of liquids, 317 (see Gladstone).

E.

Elastic force of air, variation of, between 32° Fahr. and 212° Fahr., 434 (see Stewart).

Elastic solid, general theory of the equilibrium of an, 610.

Elastic spheroidal shells, problems regarding, 583.

F.

Foster (G. C.) and Matthiessen (A.). Researches into the Chemical Constitution of Narcotine, and of its Products of Decomposition, Part I., 345 (see Matthiessen).

Friction between a wave and a wave-shaped solid, 134.

G.

Ganglion-cells, formation, &c. of, 543.

Gases, molecular mobility of, 385.

Gladstone (J. H.) and Dale (T. P.). Researches on the Refraction, Dispersion, and Sensitiveness of Liquids, 317.—Relation between sensitiveness and change of volume by heat, 319; refraction and dispersion of mixed liquids, 323; refraction, dispersion, and sensitiveness of different members of homologous series, 325; refraction, dispersion, and sensitiveness of isomeric liquids, 331; effect of chemical substitution on these optical properties, 333.

Glyoxylic acid, compounds and derivatives of, 437.

Graham (T.). On the Molecular Mobility of Gases, 385.

Greenwich magnetic observations, discussion of, 309 (see Airy).

Greenwich Observatory, analysis of magnetic registrations at the, 617.
II.

Haughton (S.). On the Reflexion of Polarized Light from Polished Surfaces, Transparent and Metallic, 81.

On the Tides of the Arctic Seas, 243.—Part I. On the diurnal tides of Port Leopold, North Somerset, 243; Part II. The semidiurnal tides, 256.

Hirst (T. A.). On the Volumes of Pedal Surfaces, 13.

Hypogallic acid, 355.

I.

Indian meteorology, numerical elements of, 525 (see Schlagintweit).

Iron, influence of temperature on the electric conducting-power of, 369.

K.

Kew Observatory, discussion of magnetic observations at, 273 (see Sabine).

M.

McClintock (Sir F. L.). Discussion of Magnetic Observations made by, 649.

Magnetic action of the sun upon the earth, nature of the, 503.

Magnetic observations at Greenwich, discussion of, 309 (see Airy).

Magnetic observations at the Kew Observatory, discussion of, 273 (see Sabine).

Magnetic observations at Port Kennedy, discussion of, 649.

Magnetic storms registered at the Greenwich Observatory, analysis of, 617.

Mass of the moon, deduced from tidal observations, 260.

Matthiessen (A.) and Foster (G. C.). Researches into the Chemical Constitution of Narcotine, and of its Products of Decomposition, Part I., 345.—Composition of narcotine and cotarnine, 345; decompositions and derivatives of opianic acid, 351; of cotarnine, 359; conclusion, 362.

Matthiessen (A.) and Vogt (C.). On the Influence of Temperature on the Electric Conducting-Power of Thallium and Iron, 369.

Meconin, 352; analysis of, 353; action of hydriodic acid, &c. on, 355.

Mercury, temperature of the melting-point of, 435.

Meteorology of India, 525 (see Schlagintweit).

N.

Narcotine, constitution of, 345 (see Matthiessen).

Nerve-cells of the frog, structure and formation of the, 543.

O.

Opianic acid, decompositions and derivatives of, 351.

Owen (Professor). On the Archeopteryx of von Meyer, with the description of the Fossil Remains of a Long-tailed species, from the Lithographic Stone of Solenhofen, 33.—Explanation of the plates, 46.
P.

PAVY (F. W.). On the Immunity enjoyed by the Stomach from being digested by its own Secretion during Life, 161.

Peroxides of the radicals of the organic acids, 407 (see BRODIE).
Photo-chemical researches, 139 (see BUNSEN).
Port Kennedy, discussion of magnetic observations at, 649.

R.

RANKINE (W. J. M.). On the Exact Form of Waves near the Surface of Deep Water, 127.—Appendix: on the friction between a wave and a wave-shaped solid, 134.
Reflexion of polarized light, 81 (see HAUGHTON).
Refraction of liquids, 317 (see GLADSTONE).
Rigidity of the earth, 573.
Roscoe (H. E.) and Bunsen (R.). Photo-chemical Researches, 139 (see BUNSEN).
Russell (W. H. L.). On the Calculus of Symbols.—Third Memoir, 517.

S.

SABINE (E.). Results of the Magnetical Observations at the Kew Observatory, from 1857 and 1858 to 1862 inclusive.—No. I. 273; No. II. 290.
——— Results of Hourly Observations of the Magnetic Declination made by Sir Francis Leopold McClinstock, and the Officers of the Yacht 'Fox,' at Port Kennedy, in the Arctic Sea, in the Winter of 1858–59; and a Comparison of these Results with those obtained by Captain Rochfort Maguire, and the Officers of Her Majesty's Ship 'Plover,' in 1852, 1853, and 1854, at Point Barrow, 649.
SCHLAFLI (Dr.). On the Distribution of Surfaces of the Third Order into Species, in reference to the absence or presence of Singular Points, and the reality of their Lines, 193.
SCHLAGINTWEIT (H. DE). Numerical Elements of Indian Meteorology, 525.—Calculation of the daily mean, 525; Tables of 207 stations, 530; decrease of temperature with height in the tropics, 538; thermal types of the year and the seasons, 539.
Scrolls, or skew surfaces, 453.
Sensitiveness of liquids, 317 (see GLADSTONE).
Skew surfaces, 453.
Sphere, oscillations of a liquid, 608.
Standard paper for photo-chemical observations, preparation of, 155.
STEWART (B.). An Account of Experiments on the Change of the Elastic Force of a Constant Volume of Atmospheric Air, between 32° F. and 212° F., and also on the Temperature of the Melting-point of Mercury, 425.
Stomach, immunity of the, from digestion during life, 161.
Strains in the interior of beams, 49.
Surfaces of the third order, distribution of, 193 (see SCHLAFLI).
Surfaces, pedal, 13.

T.

Thallium, 173 (see CROOKES); 369 (see MATTHIESSEN).
INDEX.

Thomson (W.). Note relative to the nature of the Sun's Magnetic Action upon the Earth, 515.
On the Rigidity of the Earth, 573.—Effect of the earth's elastic yielding on the tides, 575; note on the fortnightly tide, 581; appendix, 582.
Dynamical Problems regarding Elastic Spheroidal Shells and Spheroids of Incompressible Liquid, 583.—Oscillations of a liquid sphere, 608; Appendix, general theory of the equilibrium of an elastic solid, 610.

Tidal observations at Port Leopold, North Somerset, 262.
Tides of the arctic seas, 243 (see Haughton).
Tides, effect of the earth's elastic yielding on the, 575.

Tyndall (J.). On the Relation of Radiant Heat to Aqueous Vapour, 1.

V.

Vapour, aqueous, relation of radiant heat to, 1.
Voet (C.) and Matthiessen (A.). On the Influence of Temperature on the Electric Conducting-power of Thallium and Iron, 369.

W.

Waves, exact form of, 127 (see Rankine).
PRESENTS

RECEIVED BY

THE ROYAL SOCIETY,

WITH THE

NAMES OF THE DONORS.

From November 1862 to June 1863.

PRESENTS. Donors.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES.

Amsterdam:—

Verhandelingen der Koninklijke Akademie van Wetenschappen. Deel VIII. The Academy.
4to. Amsterdam 1862.

Verslagen en Mededeelingen. Afdeling Natuurkunde. Deel XIII. & XIV. ______
Afdeling Letterkunde. Deel VI. Svo. Amsterdam 1862.

Jaarboek voor 1861. Svo. Amsterdam.

Hippocratis et Aliorum Medicorum Veterum Reliquiæ: edidit F. Z. Ermerius. Vol. II. 4to. Trej. ad Rhen. 1862.

Antwerp:—Bulletin de la Société Paléontologique de Belgique, pp. 81–128, and three Plates. Svo. Anvers 1862.

Basel:—Verhandlungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft. Theil III. Heft 3. Svo. Basel 1862.

Batavia:—

Acta Societatis Scientiarum Indo-Neerlandicae. Vols. V. & VI. 4to. Batavia 1859.

Verhandelingen van het Bataviasch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen. Deel. XXVII. & XXVIII. 4to. Batavia 1860.

Natuurkundig Tijdschrift voor Nederlandsch Indië, uitgegeven door de Natuurkundige Vereeniging in Nederlandsch Indië. Vierde serie. Deel. IV. & V. Aflevering 1–6. Svo. Batavia 1859.

Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal-, Land- en Volkenkunde, uitgegeven door het Bataviasch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen. Deel. VI. VII., VIII., IX. & X. 8vo. Batavia 1856–60.

Berlin:—

Akademie der Wissenschaften. Monatsbericht. April to December 1862, January and February 1863. 8vo. Berlin.

MDCCCLXIII.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Berlin:—Physikalischen Gesellschaft. Die Fortschritte der Physik im Jahre 1860. XVI. Jahrgang. Abth. 1 & 2. 8vo. Berlin 1862.

Bern:—Mittheilungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft aus dem Jahre 1862. Nr. 497–530. 8vo. Bern 1862.

Berwickshire Naturalists' Club. Proceedings. Vol. IV. No. 6. 8vo. Berwick 1862.

Birmingham:—Institution of Mechanical Engineers. Proceedings, January, April & July, parts 1–3. 8vo. Birmingham 1862.

Bogota:—Contribuciones de Colombia a la Ciencias i a las Artes, publicadas con la cooperacion de la Sociedad de Naturalistas Neo-Granadinos. Año 2. 8vo. Bogota 1861.

Bologna:—

Memorie della Accademia delle Scienze dell' Istituto di Bologna. Tomo X.; Fascicoli 2–4, Tomo XI. 4to. Bologna 1860–61.

Rendiconto delle Sessioni 1859–60 e 1860–61. 8vo. Bologna 1860–61.

Bombay:—Medical and Physical Society. Transactions. No. 7, New Series, for the year 1861. 8vo. Bombay 1862.

Boston, U.S.:—

American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Memoirs. New Series. Vol. VIII. Part 1. 4to. Cambridge & Boston 1861.

Proceedings. Vol. V. Sheets 31–48. 8vo. 1861.

Society of Natural History. Boston Journal of Natural History. Vol. VI. No. 4; Vol. VII. No. 1. 8vo. Boston 1857–59.

Proceedings. Vol. VI. Sheets 11–22; Vol. VIII. Sheets 5–20; Vol. IX. Sheets 1–3. 8vo. Boston 1857–62.

Tenth Annual Report of the Trustees of the Public Library. 8vo. Boston 1862.

Breslau:—

Abhandlungen der Schlesischen Gesellschaft für vaterländische Cultur. Abtheilung für Naturwissenschaften und Medicin. 1861, Heft 3; 1862, Heft 1. Phil.-Hist. Abth., 1862, Hefte 1 & 2. 8vo. Breslau 1861–62.

Neun und dreissigster Jahresbericht. 1861. 8vo. Breslau 1862.

Bruxelles:—

Mémoires Couronnés et autres Mémoires publiés par l'Académie Royale. Tomes XIII. & XIV. 8vo. Bruxelles 1862.

Bulletins. 2ème Série, Tomes XIII. & XIV. 8vo. Bruxelles 1862.

Annuaire. 29ème Année. 8vo. Bruxelles 1863.

Bibliothèque de M. le Baron de Stassart léguée à l'Académie Royale de Belgique. 8vo. Bruxelles 1863.

Alexanders Geesten, van Jacob van Maerlant. Tweede Deel. 8vo. Brussel 1860.

Mémoires de l'Académie Royale de Médecine de Belgique. Tomes I.–III. & IV. (fasc. 1–6). 4to. Bruxelles 1848–61.

Mémoires des Concours et des Savants Étrangers. Tomes I.–IV. & V. (fasc. 1 & 2). 4to. Bruxelles 1848–60.

Bulletin. Années 1841–57. 16 vols. 8vo. Bruxelles 1842–57.

Donors.

The Society.

The Society.

The Club.

The Institution.

The Society.

The Academy.

The Society.

The Academy.

The Society.

The Trustees.

The Society.

The Academy.

The Academy.

The Academy.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Bruxelles:—

Bulletin. Table Alphabétique des Matières et des Auteurs. Svo. Bruxelles 1858.

Deuxième Série. Tomes I., II., II. Supplémentaire, III., IV. & V. Nos. 1–8. Svo. Bruxelles 1858–62.

Calcutta:—

Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal. 1862, Nos. 1–5. Svo. Calcutta.

Memoirs of the Geological Survey of India. Vol. IV. Part 1. Svo. Calcutta 1862.

Palaeontologia Indica. I. The Fossil Cephalopoda of the Cretaceous Rocks of Southern India, by H. F. Blanford. II. 1, 2, 3. Fossil Flora of the Rajmahal Hills. 4to. Calcutta 1861–62.

Annual Report, 1861–62. Svo. Calcutta 1862.

Cambridge (Mass.), Harvard College:—

Annals of the Astronomical Observatory. Vols. III. & IV. Part 1. 4to. Cambridge 1862–63.

Report of the Committee of the Overseers appointed to visit the Observatory. Svo. Boston 1863.

Catalogus Universitatis Harwardianæ, 1860. Svo. Cantab. 1860.

Catalogue of the Officers and Students, 1861–62. Svo. Cambridge 1861.

Memorial concerning Harvard College. Svo. Cambridge 1851.

Statutes and Laws. Svo. Cambridge 1860.

Annual Reports: 1857–58, 1858–59, 1860–61. Svo. Cambridge 1859–62.

Reports of the Committee of the Overseers appointed to visit the Library: 1850, 1859, 1860, 1861. Svo. Boston.

Report of the Committee of the Association of the Alumni on the College Library. Svo. Cambridge 1858.

Letter of the Librarian. Svo. Cambridge 1859.

Addresses at the Inauguration of the Rev. James Walker as President. Svo. Cambridge 1853.

Addresses at the Inauguration of C. C. Felton. Svo. Cambridge 1860.

Sermon on the death of C. C. Felton by A. P. Peabody. Svo. Cambridge 1862.

Cherbourg:—Mémoires de la Société Impériale des Sciences Naturelles. Tome VIII. Svo. Paris 1861.

Christiania:—

Forhandlinger i Videnskabs-Selskabet. Aar 1861. Svo. Christiania 1862.

Index Scholarum in Universitate Regia Fredericiana, Jan. & Aug. 1862. 4to. Christiania 1862.

Meteorologische Beobachtungen, aufgezeichnet auf Christiania’s Observatorium. Lief. 1 & 2. 4to. Christiania 1862.

Die Culturpflanzen Norwegens, beobachtet von Dr. F. C. Schübler. 4to. Christiania 1862.

Synopsis of the Vegetable Products of Norway, by Dr. F. C. Schübler. 4to. Christiania 1862.

Two Wood-Engravings of Ladegaardso Model Farm near Christiania, and of the Agricultural Implements.

Donors.

The Academy.

The Society.

The Geological Museum.

The College.

The University.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Coimbra:—Ephemerides Astronomicas calculadas para o Meridiano do Observatorio da Universidade de Coimbra, 1863. roy. 8vo. Coimbra 1862.

Columbus:—Fifteenth Annual Report of the Ohio State Board of Agriculture, for 1860. 8vo. Columbus 1861.

Dijon:—Mémoires de l'Académie Impériale des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres. 2me Série. Tome IX. Année 1861. 8vo. Dijon 1862.

Dublin:—

Geological Society. Journal. Vol. IX. Part 2. 8vo. Dublin 1862.

Royal Dublin Society. Journal. Nos. 24–29. 8vo. Dublin 1862–63.

Royal Irish Academy. Transactions. Vol. XXIV. Part 2. 4to. Dublin 1862.

Edinburgh:—

Royal Society. Transactions. Vol. XXIII. Part 1. 4to. Edinburgh 1862.

Proceedings. Session 1861–62. Vol. IV. No. 56. 8vo. Edinburgh 1862.

Royal Scottish Society of Arts. Transactions. Vol. VI. Part 2. 8vo. Edinburgh 1862.

Falmouth:—Royal Cornwall Polytechnic Society. Twenty-ninth Annual Report, 1861. 8vo. Falmouth 1862.

Frankfort:—Abhandlungen herausgegeben von der Senckenbergischen Naturforschenden Gesellschaft. Band IV. Lief. 2. 4to. Frankfurt a. M. 1863.

Geneva:—Mémoires de la Société de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle. Tome XVI. Partie 2. 4to. Genève 1862.

Göttingen:—

Abhandlungen der Königlichen Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Band X. 4to. Göttingen 1862.

Nachrichten von der Georg-Augusts-Universität und der Königl. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. 1862, Nos. 1–27. 8vo. Göttingen.

Haarlem:—Natuurkundige Verhandelingen van de Hollandsche Maatschappij der Wetenschappen. Tweede Verzameling. Deel. XVI., XVII. & XIX. Stuk 1. 4to. Haarlem 1862.

Halle:—Zeitschrift für die gesammten Naturwissenschaften, herausgegeben von dem Naturw. Vereine für Sachsen u. Thüringen in Halle. Band XVIII. Hefte 7–12; Band XIX. Hefte 1–6. 8vo. Berlin 1861–62.

Kazan:—Imperial Russian University. Outehonia Zapiski (Scientific Papers): 1834, Parts 1 & 2; 1835 to 1861, Parts 1 & 2; 26 vols. and 4 Parts 8vo. Ditto: 1848, Part 4; 1850, Part 4; 1851, Part 4; 1852, Parts 1 & 4; 1854, Part 3; 1856, Parts 3 & 4: 7 Vols. 4to. Kazan 1834–61.

Kiel:—Schriften der Universität. Bände VII. & VIII. 4to. Kiel 1861–62.

Klausenburg:—

Erdélyi Történelmi Adatok, Kiadja az Erdélyi Muzeum-Egyesület. Kotet IV. 8vo. Kolozsvárt 1862.

Az Erdélyi Muzeum-Egyelet Évkönyvei. Kotet II. Fuzet 1. 4to. Kolozsvárt 1862.

Erdélyi Orsz. Muzeum Naptára az 1863 dik Közönséges esztendőre. 8vo. Kolozsvárt 1863.

Königsberg:—Schriften der Königlichen Physikalisch-Oekonomischen Gesellschaft. Jahrgang III. 1862, Abth. 1 & 2. 4to. Königsberg 1863.

Donors.

The University.

The Board.

The Academy.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Society.

The Union.

The University, by Professor Bolzani.

The University.

The Museum.

The Society.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Lausanne:—Bulletin de la Société Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles. Tome VII. The Society.
Nos. 48 & 49. 8vo. Lausanne 1861–62.

Leipzig:—

Königl.-Sächsischen Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Berichte. Math.-Phys. Classe, 1861, I. & II.; Phil.-Hist. Classe, 1861, II., III. & IV. 8vo. Leipzig 1862.

Darlegung der theoretischen Berechnung der in den Mondtafeln angewandten Störungen, von P. A. Hansen: erste Abhandlung. 8vo. Leipzig 1862.

Messungen über die Absorption der chemischen Strahlen des Sonnenlichtes, von W. G. Hankel. 8vo. Leipzig 1862.

Preisschriften. IX.: Bohmert, Beiträge zur Geschichte des Zunftwesens. Svo. Leipzig 1862.

Die Deutsche Nationalökonomik an der Gränzscheide des Sechzehnten und Siebzehnten Jahrhunderts, von W. Roscher. 8vo. Leipzig 1862.

Locke's Lehre von der menschlichen Erkenntnis, in Vergleichung mit Leibniz's Kritik derselben, dargestellt von G. Hartenstein. 8vo. Leipzig 1862.

Preisschriften gekrönt und herausgegeben von der Fürstlich-Jablonowski'schen Gesellschaft. XI. 8vo. Leipzig 1863.

Liège:—Mémoires de la Société Royale des Sciences. Tome XVII. 8vo. Liège 1863.

Lisbon:—

Memorias da Academia Real das Sciencias. Classe de Sciencias Mathematicas, Physicas e Naturaes. Nova Serie. Tomo II. Partes 1 & 2. 4to. Lisboa 1857–61.

Classe de Sciencias Moraes, Politicas e Bellas Lettras. Nova Serie. Tomo II. Parte 1. 4to. Lisboa 1857.

Annaes das Sciencias e Lettras, publicados debaixo dos Auspicios da Academia Real das Sciencias. Sciencias Mathematicas, Physicas, Historico-Natureaes e Medicas. Tomo I. July 1857 to February 1858; Tomo II. March 1858 to July 1858. Sciencias Moraes, Politicas e Bellas Lettras. Tomo I. July 1857 to February 1858; Tomo II. March 1858 to November 1858. 8vo. Lisboa 1857–58.

Lendas da India por Gaspar Correa. Livro primeiro, Tomo I. partes 1 & 2; Livro segundo, Tomo II. partes 1 & 2. 4 vols. 4to. Lisboa 1858–61.

Portugallae Monumenta Historica. Scriptores: Vol. I. fasc. 2 & 3. folio Olisipone 1860–61. Leges et Consuetudines: Vol. I. fasc. 2. folio Olisipone 1858.

Liverpool:—

Historic Society of Lancashire and Cheshire. Transactions. New Series. The Society. Vol. II. 8vo. Liverpool 1862.

Literary and Philosophical Society. Proceedings. No. 16. 8vo. Liverpool The Society. 1862.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

London:

Anthropological Society. Anthropological Review. No. 1. Svo. London 1863.

Board of Trade. Meteorological Department. Report, 1862. Svo. London 1862.

Meteorological Papers. No. 11. Svo. London 1862.

British Association. Report of the Thirty-first Meeting, held at Manchester in September 1861. Svo. London 1862.

British Meteorological Society. Proceedings. Vol. I. Nos. 1–7. Svo. London 1862–63.

Eleventh Report of the Council for 1861. Svo. London 1861.

On the Meteorology of England during 1861, by J. Glaisher, F.R.S. Svo. London 1861.

List of the Members, 1862. Catalogue of the Library, 1862. Svo. London.

British Museum. Description of the Collection of Ancient Marbles. Part II. 4to. London 1861.

Select Papyri in the Hieratic Character, from the Collections of the British Museum. Part 2. Plates 1–19. folio London 1860.

Chemical Society. Journal. Vol. XV. Nos. 7–12, July to December 1862.

New Series. Vol. I. Nos. 1–6, January to June 1863. Svo. London.

Congrès International de Bienfaisance. Session de 1862. 2 vols. in 1. Svo. Londres 1863.

Entomological Society. Transactions. New Series, Vol. V. Parts 6–11. The Society.

Third Series, Vol. I. Parts 1–4. Svo. London 1860–62.

Geological Society. Quarterly Journal. Nos. 69–74. Svo. London 1862–63.

List and Charter and Bye-Laws. Svo. London 1862. Third Supplement Catalogue of the Library, 1860–63. Svo. London 1863.

Institution of Civil Engineers. Minutes of Proceedings. Vol. XX. Svo. London 1861.

Linnean Society. Transactions. Vol. XXIII. Part 3; Vol. XXIV. Part 1. The Society.

4to. London 1863.

Journal of the Proceedings. Nos. 24–26. Svo. London 1862–63. List of Fellows, 1862. Svo.

London University Calendar. Svo. London 1863.

National Association for the Promotion of Social Science. Transactions, 1862. Svo. London 1863.

Ophthalmic Hospital. Reports and Journal of the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital, edited by J. F. Streatfield. Nos. 1–13. Svo. London 1857–60.

Pathological Society. Transactions. Vol. XIII. Svo. London 1862.

Photographic Society. Journal. Vol. VIII. Nos. 123–134, December to June. Svo. London 1862–63.

Royal Agricultural Society. Journal. Vol. XXIII. and Vol. XXIV. Part 1. The Society.

Svo. London 1862–63.

Royal Asiatic Society. Journal. Vol. XIX. Part 4; Vol. XX. Parts 1 & 2. The Society.

Svo. London 1862–63.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

London:—

Royal Astronomical Society. Memoirs. Vol. XXX. 4to. London 1862. The Society.

Monthly Notices. Vol. XXII. Nos. 5–9; Vol. XXIII. Nos. 1–6. Svo. London 1862–63.

Royal College of Physicians. List of the Fellows, Members, Extra-Licentiates, and Licentiates. 8vo. London 1862.

Royal Geographical Society. Journal. Vol. XXXI. 8vo. London 1861. The Society.

Proceedings. Vol. VI. Nos. 2–5; Vol. VII. Nos. 1 & 2. Svo. London 1862–63.

Royal Horticultural Society. Proceedings. Vol. II. Nos. 7–12; Vol. III. Nos. 1–6. Svo. London 1862–63.

Royal Institute of British Architects. Papers read 1861–62. 4to. London 1862. List of Members, &c. 4to. London 1862.

Royal Institution. Notices of the Proceedings at the Meetings of the Members. Nos. 35–37. 8vo. London 1862–63. List of Members, 1862. Svo.

Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. Vol. XLV. Svo. London 1862.

Proceedings. Vol. IV. Nos. 2 & 3. Svo. London 1862.

Royal Society of Literature. Transactions. Second Series. Vol. VII. Part 2. Svo. London 1862.

St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Descriptive Catalogue of the Anatomical Museum. Vol. III. Svo. London 1862.

Society of Antiquaries. Archaeologia. Vol. XXXVIII. Part 2. 4to. London 1862.

Proceedings. Second Series. Vol. I. Nos. 2–7. Svo. London 1860–61. Lists of Members. Svo. London 1861–62.

Society of Arts. Journal. Vol. X. Nos. 501–521; Vol. XI. Nos. 522–551. Index to Vols. I.–X. 8vo. London 1862–63.

United Service Institution. Journal. Vol. VI. Nos. 21–25, and Appendix. Svo. London 1862–63.

University College. Calendar for the Session 1862–63. Svo. London 1862.

Zoological Society. Proceedings of the Scientific Meetings. 1861, Part 3; 1862, Parts 1–3. Svo. London.

Transactions. Vol. IV. Part 7. Section 2. 4to. London 1862.

Luxembourg:—Société des Sciences Naturelles. Tome V. 1857–62. Svo. Luxembourg 1862.

Madrid:—Anuario del Real Observatorio, cuarto año: 1863. 12mo. Madrid 1862.

Manchester:—

Literary and Philosophical Society. Memoirs. Third Series. Vol. I. Svo. London 1862.

Proceedings. Vol. I. No. 15, Title and Index; Vol. II. Svo. Manchester 1860–62.

Rules. Svo. Manchester 1861.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Mannheim:—Astronomische Beobachtungen auf der Grossherzoglichen Sternwarte, angestellt und herausgegeben von Dr. E. Schönfeld. Abth. 1. 4to. Mannheim 1862.

Mauritius:—

Meteorological Society. Proceedings. Vol. V. 8vo. Mauritius 1861–62. The Society.

Royal Society of Arts and Sciences. Transactions. New Series. Vol. II. Part 1. (Two copies.) 8vo. Mauritius 1861.

Observations on the Water-Supply of Mauritius. By Captain J. R. Mann. 8vo. Mauritius 1860.

Melbourne:—

Royal Society of Victoria. Transactions, from January to December 1860. Vol. V. 8vo. Melbourne 1861.

Transactions of the Philosophical Institute of Victoria. Vol. II. Part 2. 8vo. Melbourne 1858.

Catalogue of the Victorian Exhibition, 1861. 8vo. Melbourne 1861.

Essais divers servant d'Introduction au Catalogue de l'Exposition des Produits de la Colonie de Victoria. 8vo. Melbourne 1861.

Die Colonie Victoria in Australien, ihr Fortschritt, ihre Hilfsquellen und ihr physikalischer Charakter. 8vo. Melbourne 1861.

The Victorian Government Prize Essays, 1860. 8vo. Melbourne 1861.

Statistical Register of Victoria, from the foundation of the Colony. 8vo. Melbourne 1854.

The Catalogue of the Melbourne Public Library for 1861. 8vo. Melbourne 1861.

Statistical Notes on the Progress of Victoria from the foundation of the Colony (1835–1860). By W. H. Archer. First Series. Parts 1 & 2. 4to. Melbourne 1861.

Second Report of the Board of Visitors to the Observatories, Victoria. fol. Melbourne 1861–62.

Milan:—

Memorie del Reale Istituto Lombardo di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Vol. VIII. fasc. 6 & 7; Vol. IX. fasc. 1. 4to. Milano 1861–62.

Atti. Vol. II. fasc. 15–20; Vol. III. fasc. 1–4, 9 & 10. 4to. Milano 1862.

Atti della Società Geologica residente in Milano: Vol. I., 1855–59. Atti della Società Italiana di Scienze Naturali: Vol. II., 1859–60; Vol. III., 1861; Vol. IV., 1862. 8vo. Milano 1859–63.

Montreal:—

Natural History Society. Canadian Naturalist and Geologist. Vol. VII. Nos. 3–6. 8vo Montreal 1862.

Numismatic Society. Constitution and By-Laws. Notes on Coins, by S. C. Bagg. 12mo. Montreal 1863.

Moscow:—Bulletin de la Société Impériale des Naturalistes. Année 1861. Nos. 1–4. 8vo. Moscou 1861.

Munich:—

Abhandlungen der Mathemat.-Physikalischen Classe der Königlich-Bayerischen Akademie der Wissenschaften. Band IX. Abth. 2. 4to. München 1862.

Donors.

The Observatory.

The Society.

The Society.

The Royal Society of Victoria.

The Society.

The Society.

The Academy.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Munich:—

Abhandlungen der Historischen Classe. Band IX. Abth. I. 4to. München 1862.

Sitzungsberichte: 1862, I. Hefte 1–4; 1862, II. Hefte 1–4; 1863, I. Hefte 1 & 2. Svo. München 1862–63.

Verzeichniss der Mitglieder. 4to. München 1862.

Ueber Parthenogenesis: Vortrag von C. T. E. von Siebold. 4to. München 1862.

Zum Gedächtniss an Jean Baptiste Riot, von C. F. P. von Martius. 4to. München 1862.

Annalen der königlichen Sternwarte. Band II. Svo. München 1862.

Naples:—Società Reale. Rendiconto dell’ Accademia delle Scienze Fisiche e Matematiche. Fasc. 1–4. May–August 1862. 4to. Napoli.

Neuchatel:—Bulletin de la Société des Sciences Naturelles. Tome VI. premier cahier. Svo. Neuchatel 1862.

Newcastle-upon-Tyne:—Tyneside Naturalists’ Field Club. Transactions. Vol. V. Parts 3 & 4. Svo. Newcastle 1862–63.

New York:—

Forty-fourth Annual Report of the Trustees of the New York State Library. Svo. Albany 1862.

Seventy-fifth Annual Report of the Regents of the University of the State of New York. Svo. Albany 1862.

Thirteenth and Fifteenth Annual Reports of the Regents on the Condition of the State Cabinet of Natural History. Svo. Albany 1860–62.

Report of the Regents on the Longitudes of the Dudley Observatory, the Hamilton College Observatory, the City of Buffalo, the City of Syracuse. Svo. Albany 1862.

Paris:—

Comptes Rendus de l’Académie des Sciences. Tome LIV. Nos. 23–24; Tome LV. Nos. 1–26; Tome LVI. Nos. 1–23. Table des Matières, Tome LIV. 4to. Paris 1862–63. Supplément, Tome II. 4to. Paris 1861.

Mémoires de l’Académie des Sciences. Tome XXXIII. (Chevreul sur les Couleurs). Paris 1861.

Cercles Chromatiques. 4to. Paris 1862.

Mémoires présentés par divers Savants à l’Académie des Sciences. Sciences mathématiques et physiques. Tomes XVI. & XVII. 4to. Paris 1862.

Notices et Extraits des Manuscrits de la Bibliothèque Impériale et autres bibliothèques. Tome XV. Table; XIX. 1e partie; XX. 2e partie. 4to. Paris 1861–62.

Mémoires de l’Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres. Tome XX. 1e partie; XXIV. 1e partie. 4to. Paris 1861.

Mémoires de divers Savants. Première Série, Tome VI. 1e partie. Deuxième Série, Tome IV. 1e partie. 4to. Paris 1860.

Dépôt de la Marine:—Annales Hydrographiques, 1–4e Trimestre de 1861 1–4e Trim. de 1862; 1e Trim. de 1863. Svo. Paris 1861–63.

Recherches Chronométriques. Cahiers V. & VI. Svo. Paris 1861–62.

MDCCCLXIII.
ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Paris:—

Annuaire des Marées des Côtes de France, 1862, 1863, 1864. 8vo. Paris 1861–62.

Routier de la Baie de Fundy et de la Nouvelle Écosse. 8vo. Paris 1861.

Le vrai principe de la Loi des Ouragans. 8vo. Paris 1861.

Description Hydrographique de la côte orientale de la Corée. 8vo. Paris 1861.

Renseignements Nautiques sur les Côtes de Patagonie. (Extraits des Ann. Hydrog.) 8vo. Paris 1862.

Avis aux Navigateurs, Nos. 316, 317, 319, 320, 323 & 324. 8vo. Paris 1861–62.

Instructions Nautiques, par J. Horsburgh. Parties I. & II. 4to. Paris 1861–62.

Routier de l'Australe, par A. Le Gras. Vol. II. 8vo. Paris 1861.

Des Ouragans, Tornados, Typhons et Tempêtes, par F. A. E. Keller. 8vo. Paris 1861.

Instructions Nautiques sur les Côtes d'Islande, par Barlatier de Mas. 8vo. Paris 1862.

Instructions sur l'isle de Crète ou Candie, par Spratt. 8vo. Paris 1861.

Manuel de la Navigation dans la Mer des Antilles et dans le Golfe du Mexique, par P. de Kerhallet. Parties I. & II. 8vo. Paris 1862.

Description Hydrographique des Côtes Septentrionales de la Russie, par M. Reinèke. 2e Partie. 8vo. Paris 1862.

Instructions Nautiques sur le Sound de Harris et le Petit Minch. Traduit de l'Anglais, par A. Le Gras. 8vo. Paris 1862.

Campagne de la Cordelière, par le Vte Fleuriot de Langle. 8vo. Paris 1862.

Nouveau Manuel de la Navigation dans le Rio de la Plata, par E. Mouchez. 8vo. Paris 1862.

Guide pour l'usage des Cartes des Vents et des Courants du Golfe de Guinée, par M. de Brito Capello. 8vo. Paris 1862.

Table Chronologique de quatre cents Cyclones, par A. Poey. 8vo. Paris 1862.

Renseignements Hydrographiques et Statistiques sur la Côte de Syrie, par M. Desmoulins. 8vo. Paris 1862.

Guide du Marin et du Caboteur sur les Côtes Est de la Mer du Nord, &c. Traduit de l'ouvrage Anglais de Norie, par P. Guéry. 8vo. Paris 1863.

Pilote du Golfe et du Fleuve Saint Laurent, par H. W. Bayfield. Traduction par A. Le Gras. Partie 1. Svo. Paris 1863.

Routier de la Côte Sud et Sud-Est d'Afrique. 8vo. Paris 1863.

Forty-seven Maps and Charts.

Annales des Mines. 6e Série, Tomes I. & II., 2–6me livr. de 1862; Tome III., 1 & 2me livr. de 1863. 8vo. Paris.

Institut des Provinces, des Sociétés Savantes et des Congrès Scientifiques. Annuaire. 2e Série. Vol. IV. 8vo. Paris 1862.

Institut Égyptien. Bulletin. Année 1862. No. 7. 8vo. Paris 1862.

Donors.

Le Dépôt de la Marine.

The Institute.
ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Paris:—

Société de Biologie. Comptes Rendus des Séances et Mémoires. 3e Série. The Society.
Tome II. Svo. Paris 1861.

Société d'Encouragement pour l'Industrie Nationale. Bulletin. Tome IX. The Society.
Nos. 112–120; Tome X. Nos. 121–124. 4to. Paris 1862–63.

Société de Géographie. Bulletin. 5e Série. Tomes III. & IV. Svo. Paris 1862. The Society.

Société Géologique de France. Bulletin. 2e Série. Tome XVIII. feuilles 44–52, Table; Tome XIX. feuilles 13–68. Svo. Paris 1862.

Notice sur la Vie et les travaux de P. L. A. Cordier, par le Cte Jaubert. 8vo. Paris 1862.

Philadelphia:—

Academy of Natural Sciences. Journal. New Series. Vol. V. Part 3. 4to. The Academy.
Philadelphia 1862.

Proceedings. Nos. 7–12. Svo. Philadelphia 1862.

American Philosophical Society. Transactions. Vol. XII. Parts 1–3. 4to. The Society.
Philadelphia 1862–63.

Proceedings. Vol. VII. No. 64; Vol. VIII. Nos. 65–68. Svo. Philadelphia 1860–62.

Franklin Institute. Journal. Nos. 438–449; Vol. XLIV. Nos. 4–6; Vol. XLV. Nos. 1 & 2. Svo. Philadelphia 1862–63.

Prague:—

Abhandlungen der Königlichen Böhmischen Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. The Society.
Fünfte Folge, zwölfter Band. 4to. Prag 1863.

Sitzungsberichte. Jahrgang 1862, Jan.–Dec., 2 Parts. 8vo. Prag 1862.

Rome:—

Atti dell' Accademia Pontificia de' Nuovi Lincei. Anno XIII. Sess. 5–7; Anno XIV. Sess. 1–2. 4to. Roma 1860–61.

Bullettino Meteorologico dall'Osservatorio del Collegio Romano, compilato dal P. Angelo Secchi. Vol. I. Nos. 6–24, Title Page and Index; Vol. II. Nos. 1–7. 4to. Roma 1862–63.

St. Petersburg:—

Académie Impériale des Sciences. Mémoires. Tome IV. Nos. 1–9. 4to. The Academy.
St. Pétersbourg 1861–62.

Bulletin. Tome IV. Nos. 3–6. 4to. St. Pétersbourg.

Stockholm:—

Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps-Akademiens Handlingar. Ny Följd, tredje Bandet, andra Häftet, 1860. 4to. Stockholm 1862.

Översigt af K. Vetenskaps-Akademiens Förhandlingar. Årgången XVIII. Svo. Stockholm 1862.

Meteorologiska Jakttagelser i Sverige, andra Bandet 1860. 4to. Stockholm 1862.

Sydney:—Entomological Society of New South Wales. Transactions. Vol. I. The Society.
Part 1. Svo. Sydney 1863.

Toronto:—The Canadian Journal of Industry, Science, and Art. New Series. The Institute.
Nos. 34, 36–44. Svo. Toronto 1861–63.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Toulouse:—Mémoires de l'Académie Impériale des Sciences, Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres. 5e Série. Tome VI. 8vo. Toulouse 1862.

Upsala:—

Nova Acta Regiae Societatis Scientiarum Upsaliensis, Series tertiae Vol. IV. fasc. 1. 4to. Upsalia 1862.

Upsala Universitets Årsskrift, 1861. Theologi; Philosophi, Språkvetenskap och Historiska Vetenskaper; Mathematik och Naturvetenskap; Medicin; Ratts- och Stats-Vetenskaper. 5 Parts. 8vo. Upsala 1861.

Utrecht:—

Aanteekeningen van het Verhandelde in de Sectie-Vergaderingen van het Provinciaal Utrechtsch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen, 1850–61, 10 Parts. Svo. Utrecht 1851–61.

Verslag van het Verhandelde in de Algemeene Vergadering, 1860–61. 2 Parts. Svo. Utrecht 1860–61.

Inhouds-Opgave der Werken van het Provinciaal Utrechtsche Genootschap. Svo. Utrecht.

Chronologisch Register op het Vervolg van het Groot-Charterboek van Van Mieris. Svo. Utrecht 1859.

Natuurkundige Verhandelingen. Deel I. Stuk. 1 & 2. 4to. Utrecht 1862.

Koninklijk Nederlandsch Meteorologisch Instituut. Storm Kaart aangevende de verschillende Windrichtingen, waaruit de Stormen gewoed hebben, alsmede de Maandelijkse Stormprocenten. Utrecht 1862.

Meteorologische Waarnemingen in Nederland en zijne Bezittingen 1861. 4to. Utrecht 1862.

Verzameling van Kaarten inhoudende eene procentsgewijze Opgave omtrent Storm, Regen, Donder en Mist, grootendels getrokken uit de jongste Waarnemingen onzer Nederlandse Zeelieden als uitkomst van Wetenschap en Ervaring aangaande Winden en Zeestroomingen in sommige gedeelten van den Oceaan, fol. Utrecht 1862.

Venice:—

Memorie dell' I. R. Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Vol. X. parti 2 & 3. 4to. Venezia 1862.

Atti. Serie terza. Tomo VII. disp. 4–10; Tomo VIII. disp. 1–3. 8vo. Venezia 1861–63.

Vienna:—

Denkschriften der Kaiserlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften. Phil.-Hist. Classe. Band XII. 4to. Wien 1862.

Sitzungsberichte. Math.-Naturw. Classe, erste Abtheilung, Band XLV. Hefte 1–5; zweite Abth., Band XLV. Hefte 1–5; Band XLVI. Hefte 1 & 2. Phil.-Hist. Classe, Band XXXVIII. Heft 3; Band XXXIX. Hefte 1–5; Band XL. Hefte 1 & 2. 8vo. Wien 1862.

Almanach. Zwölfter Jahrgang. 1862. 12mo. Wien.

Central-Anstalt für Meteorologie und Erdmagnetismus. Uebersichten der Witterung in Oesterreich und einigen auswärtigen Stationen im Jahre 1860. 4to. Wien 1861.

Jahrbuch der k.-k. Geologischen Reichsanstalt. 1861 und 1862, XII. Band, Nos. 2–4; 1863, XIII. Band, No. 1; General-Register der ersten zehn Bände, 8vo. Wien 1862–63.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Vienna:—

Mittheilungen der k.-k. Geographischen Gesellschaft. V. Jahrgang, 1861. The Society.
8vo. Wien 1861.

Verhandlungen des Zoologisch-Botanischen Vereins. Bände III–IX. XI. & XII. 8vo. Wien 1853–62.

Bericht über die Oesterreichische Literatur der Zoologie, Botanik und Paläontologie aus den Jahren 1850, 1851, 1852, 1853. 8vo. Wien 1855.

Personen-, Orts- und Sach-Register der fünf ersten Jahrgänge (1851–1855) der Sitzungsberichte, und Abhandlungen des Wiener Zoologisch-Botanischen Vereines (1856–1860). 8vo. Wien 1861–62.

Nachträge zu Maly's Enumeratio Plantarum phanerogamicarum Imperii Austriaci universi, von A. Neilreich. 8vo. Wien 1861.

Bericht über die zweite allgemeine Versammlung von Berg- und Hüttenmännern (21 bis 28 Sept. 1861). 8vo. Wien 1862.

Washington:—

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, 1860. 8vo. Washington 1861.

Catalogue of Publications of the Smithsonian Institution, corrected to June 1862. 8vo. Washington 1862.

Würzburg:—

Würzburger Medicinische Zeitschrift, herausgegeben von der Physikalisch-Medicinischen Gesellschaft. Band III. Hefte 1–6; Band IV. Hefte 1 & 2. 8vo. Würzburg 1862–63.

Würzburger Naturwissenschaftliche Zeitschrift. Band III. Hefte 2–4. 8vo. Würzburg 1862.

Zürich:—

Neujahrsblätter der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft. Stücke 1–64. 4to. Zürich 1799–1862.

Bericht über die Verhandlungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft. 1825–26, 1832–36 & 1836–37. 3 Parts. 12mo. Zürich 1826–38.

Meteorologische Beobachtungen angestellt auf Veranstaltung, 1837–46. 10 Parts. 4to.

Mittheilungen. Heft 10. Nos. 119–131. 8vo. Zürich 1856.

Vierteljahrsschrift. Jahrgang VII. Hefte 1 & 2. 8vo. Zürich 1862.

Katalog der Bibliothek. 8vo. Zürich 1855.

Denkschrift zur Feier des hundertjährigen Stiftungfestes der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft, Nov. 30, 1846. 4to. Zürich 1846.

Nouveaux Mémoires de la Société Helvétique des Sciences Naturelles. Band XIX. 4to. Zürich 1846.

Compte-Rendu de la 45e Session, réunie à Lausanne les 20, 21 et 22 Août 1861. 8vo. Lausanne 1861.

AMMANUS (J.) Stirpium rariorum in Imperio Rutheno sponte provenientium Icones et Descriptiones. 4to. Petropoli 1739.

ANONYMOUS:—

Anéroïdes (Les). 8vo. Paris 1861.

Astronomical and Meteorological Observations made at the United States Naval Observatory during 1861. 4to. Washington 1862.

Donors.

The Society.
The Union.
The Society.
The Institution.
The Society.
The Society.
The Society.
The Author.
The Observatory.
ANONYMOUS (continued).

Catalogue of the Maps and Plans and other Publications of the Ordnance Survey of England and Wales. 8vo. London 1862.

Catalogue of the Maps and Plans and other Publications of the Ordnance Survey of Scotland. 8vo. London 1863.

Catalogue of the Nova Scotian Department, International Exhibition, 1862. Svo. Halifax 1862.

Chemical (A) Review, by a B. 8vo. London 1863.

Correspondence between the Society of Antiquaries and the Admiralty respecting the Tides in the Dover Channel with reference to the Landing of Caesar in Britain, n.c. 55. 4to. London 1863.

Correspondence of Scientific Men of the Seventeenth Century, printed from the Originals in the Collection of the Earl of Macclesfield. 2 vols. 8vo. Oxford 1841.

Cursory Thoughts on some Natural Phenomena. 8vo. New York 1862.

Entomologist's Annual for 1863. 12mo. London 1863.

International Exhibition, 1862. Report on Class X., Section A. Civil Engineering and Building Contrivances. 8vo. London 1862.

Judicial Statistics, 1861. England and Wales. 4to. London 1862.

Matériaux pour la Carte Géologique de la Suisse, publiés par la Commission Géologique de la Société Helvétique des Sciences Naturelles. Livr. I. 4to. Neuchatel 1863.

Atlas, 1° livr., Carte Géologique du Jura Balois, par A. Müller, 1862.

Nautical Almanac and Astronomical Ephemeris for 1865 & 1866. 2 vols. 8vo. London 1861–62.

Ephemerides of the Minor Planets for 1863. 8vo. London 1863.

Ninth Report of the Postmaster General on the Post Office. 8vo. London 1863.

Proceedings of the Commissioners of Indian Affairs appointed by law for the extinguishment of Indian Titles in the State of New York, published from the Original MS. in the Library of the Albany Institute, with an Introduction and Notes, by F. B. Hough. 4to. Albany 1861.

Report of a sad case, recently tried before the Lord Mayor, Owen v. Huxley, in which will be found fully given the merits of the great recent Bone Case. 8vo. London 1863.

Report of the Commissioners of Patents for 1860, Arts and Manufactures. 2 vols. 8vo. Washington 1861.

for 1861, Agriculture. 8vo. Washington 1862.

Report of the Royal Commission on the Operation of the Acts relating to Trawling for Herring on the Coasts of Scotland. fol. Edinburgh 1863.

Report of the Superintendent of the United States Coast Survey. Appendices Nos. 21, 22 & 42. 4to. Washington.

Report on the Geology of Vermont, by E. Hitchcock, A. D. Hager, C. H. Hitchcock. 2 vols. 4to. Claremont, N. H. 1861.

Sir H. James, F.R.S.

Unknown.

W. Francis, Esq.

The Society of Antiquaries.

The Delegates of the University Press.

The Author.

H. T. Stainton, Esq.

Sir John Rennie, F.R.S.

The Secretary of State for the Home Department.

The Society.

The Lords of the Admiralty.

Sir R. Hill, F.R.S.

The Albany Institute.

John Marshall, F.R.S.

The Patent Office, Washington.

Secretary of State for the Home Department.

The Coast Survey Office, Washington.

The State Government.
ANONYMOUS (continued).

Report upon the Colorado River of the West, explored in 1857 and 1858 by Lieut. J. C. Ives. 4to. Washington 1861.

Report upon the Physics and Hydraulics of the Mississippi River, by Capt. A. A. Humphreys and Lieut. H. L. Abbot. 4to. Philadelphia 1861.

Russian Translation of the Admiralty Manual on the Deviations of the Compass. 8vo. St. Petersburg 1863.

Statistical, Sanitary and Medical Reports for 1860. Army Medical Department. 8vo. London 1862.

Statistical Reports on the Sickness, Mortality and Invaliding among the Troops in the West Indies; in Western Africa, St. Helena, Cape of Good Hope and Mauritius; in Ceylon, Tenasserim Provinces, and Burmese Empire; in the United Kingdom, Mediterranean and British America. 5 parts. fol. London 1838–53.

Wissenschaftlichen (Die) und praktischen Erfolge der Novara-Expedition. 8vo.

ANSTED (D. T., F.R.S.) The Correlation of the Natural History Sciences. The "Rede" Lecture, delivered May 12, 1863. 8vo. London 1863.

AVEZAC (D') Restitution de deux passages du texte grec de la Géographie de Ptolémée aux chapitres V. et VI. du septième livre. 8vo. Paris 1862.

BACHE (A. D., For. Mem. R.S.) Discussion of the Magnetic and Meteorological Observations made at the Girard College Observatory, Philadelphia, 1840–45. Part I. 4to. Washington 1859.

Lecture on the Gulf Stream. 8vo. New Haven 1860.

Influence of the Moon on the declination of the Magnetic Needle. 8vo. New Haven 1861.

On Declinometer Observations. (Excerpts from the Amer. Journ.) 8vo. New Haven 1861.

BATES (H. W.) The Naturalist on the River Amazons, a Record of Adventures during eleven years of Travel. 2 vols. 8vo. London 1863.

BEATSON (A.) Tracts relative to the Island of St. Helena, written during a residence of five years. 4to. London 1816.

BEKE (C. T.) A few Words with Bishop Colenso on the subject of the Exodus of the Israelites and the position of Mount Sinai. 8vo. London 1862.

Who discovered the Sources of the Nile? a Letter to Sir Roderick I. Murchison. 8vo. London 1863.

BÉRON (P.) Météorologie Simplifiée et Télégraphes sans fils et sans câbles. 8vo. Paris 1863.

BERTHELOT (—) et PÉAN DE SAINT GILLES. Recherches sur les Affinités; de la Formation et de la Composition des Éthers. 8vo. Paris 1862.

BESSEL'S Hypsometric Tables, as corrected by Plantamour, reduced to English Measures and re-calculated by A. J. Ellis. (Excerpt from Meteor. Papers, Board of Trade.) 8vo. London 1863.

BIANCONI (G. G.) Del Calore prodotto per l'attrito fra Fluidi e Solidi in rapporto colle Sorgenti Termali e cogli Aeroliti. 8vo. Bologna 1862.

Donors.

The War Department, United States.

Capt. Belavenitz, R.I.N.

Dr. T. Graham Balfour, F.R.S.

The I. R. Navy Board, Vienna.

The Author.

United States Coast Survey.

The Author.

J. Hogg, F.R.S.

The Author.

Admiral FitzRoy, F.R.S.

The Author.
PRESENTS.

BIANCONI (J. J.) Specimina Zoologica Mosambicana. Fasciculus XV. 4to. Bononia 1862.

BOECK (W.) Recherches sur la Syphilis, appuyées de Tableaux de Statistique tirés des Archives des Hôpitaux de Christiania. 4to. Christiania 1862.

BOERHAAVE (H.) Index alter Plantarum quae in Horto Academico Lugduno-Batavo aluntur. 4to. Lugd.-Bat. 1720.

BOND (G. P.) On the Results of Photometric Experiments upon the Light of the Moon and of the Planet Jupiter, made at the Observatory of Harvard College. 4to. Cambridge 1861.

BRIOSCHI (F.) Sulla risolvente di Malfatti per le equazioni del quinto grado. 4to. Milano 1863.

BROWN (S.) On the Rate of Mortality and Marriage amongst Europeans in India. (Excerpt from Assurance Mag.) 8vo. London.

BURDER (W. C.) The Meteorology of Clifton. 8vo. Bristol 1863.

CALLENDER (G. W.) Anatomy of the parts concerned in Femoral Rupture. 8vo. London 1863.

CAMPANI (G.) Rapporto del Segretario Generale del Congresso degli Scienziati Italiani per la sezione delle Scienze Fisiche, Matematiche e Naturali. 4to. Siena 1862.

CARTER (H. J., F.R.S.) On Contributions to the Geology of Western India. 8vo. 1860.

Further Observations on the Structure of Foraminifera and on the larger Fossilized Forms of Sind, &c. 8vo. 1861.

Index to Original Papers and Compilations by H. J. Carter. (Excerpts from Journ. Bombay Branch of the R. As. Soc.) 8vo. 1861.

CAVALLI (J.) Mémoire sur la théorie de la Résistance Statique et Dynamique des Solides. 4to. Turin 1863.

CHELINI (D.) Della Legge onde un Ellissoide eterogeneo propaga la sua Attrazione da Punto a Punto. 4to. Bologna 1862.

COOKE (E. W., F.R.S.) Views of the Old and New London Bridges. (Proofs.) fol. London 1833.

CORBIOT (J. B.) Revue sur le Système d'Inoculations curatives du Dr. Télèphe Desmartis. 8vo. Bordeaux 1862.

CRACE-CALVERT (Dr. F., F.R.S.) Lectures on Coal-Tar Colours and on recent improvements and progress in Dyeing and Calico-printing. 8vo. Manchester 1863.

CREMONA (L.) Introduzione ad una Teoria Geometrica delle Curve Piane. 4to. Bologna 1862.

DAUBENY (C., F.R.S.) Remarks on the recent Eruption of Vesuvius in December 1861. 8vo. 1862.

Climate: an Inquiry into the causes of its differences, and into its influence on Vegetable Life. Four Lectures. 8vo. Oxford 1863.

DE LA RIVE (A., For. Mem. R.S.) Nouvelles Recherches sur les Aurores Boréales et Australes. 4to. Genève 1862.

DELESSE (—) Carte Agronomique des Environs de Paris. 8vo. Paris 1862.

DONORS.

The Author.

The University, Christiania.

J. Hogg, F.R.S.

The Author.

The Author, by Professor Cayley, F.R.S.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.
PRESENTS.

DE MORGAN (A.) On the Syllogism No. 5, and on various Points of the Onymatic System. (Excerpt from Trans. Camb. Phil. Soc.) 4to. Cambridge 1863.

DEVINCENZI (G.) On the Cultivation of Cotton in Italy, Report to the Minister of Agriculture of the Kingdom of Italy. 8vo. London 1862.

DEWALQUE (G.) Notice sur le système Eifelien dans le Bassin de Namur. 8vo. Bruxelles.

DIRCKS (H.) Perpetuum Mobile, or History of the search for self-motive power, during the 17th, 18th, and 19th Centuries. 8vo. London 1861.

DOVE (H. W., For. Mem. R.S.) The Law of Storms, considered in connexion with the Ordinary Movements of the Atmosphere. Translated by R. H. Scott. 8vo. London 1862.

DOWLEANS (A.M.) Official Classified and Descriptive Catalogue of the Contributions from India to the London Exhibition of 1862. 4to. Calcutta 1862.

DURAND (André) La Toscane, Album Pittoresque et Archéologique. Livraison 1e. Île d'Elbe. fol. Paris 1862.

DURAND (F. A.) Théorie Électrique du Froid, de la Chaleur et de la Lumière (Doctrine de l'Unité des Forces physiques). 8vo. Paris 1863.

EMMONS (E.) and HALL (J.) Natural History of New York. Part V. Agriculture, by E. Emmons. Vol. V. 4to. Albany 1854. Part VI. Palaeontology, by James Hall. Vol. III. Part 1. Text; Part 2. Plates. 4to. Albany 1859–61.

ERNESTI (J. O.) Initia Doctrinæ Solidioris. 12mo. Lipsiae 1783.

EVANS (F. J., F.R.S.) and SMITH (Arch., F.R.S.) Admiralty Manual for ascertaining and applying the Deviations of the Compass caused by the Iron in a Ship. 8vo. London 1862.

FERGUSSON (E. F. T.) and MITCHESON (P. W.) Magnetical and Meteorological Observations made at the Government Observatory, Bombay, in 1860. 4to. Bombay 1861.

FERGUSSON (J., F.R.S.) An Historical Inquiry into the true Principles of Beauty in Art, more especially with reference to Architecture. 8vo. London 1849.

An Essay on a proposed new System of Fortification, with Hints for its application to our National Defences. 8vo. London 1849.

Observations on the British Museum, National Gallery, and National Record Office, with Suggestions for their improvement. 8vo. London 1849.

Illustrated Handbook of Architecture. 2 vols. 8vo. London 1855.

FITZROY (Admiral, F.R.S.) The Weather Book: a Manual of Practical Meteorology. 8vo. London 1863.

Second edition. 8vo. London 1863.

FUCHS (J. N. V.) Gesammelte Schriften, redigirt und mit einem Nekrologie versehen von C. G. Kaiser. 4to. München 1856.

GARDNER (R.) Figures illustrating the Structure of Various Invertebrate Animals (Mollusks and Articulata). 8vo. London 1860.

DONORS.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

Admiral FitzRoy, F.R.S.

Unknown.

The Prince Demidoff.

The Author.

J. Hogg, F.R.S.

The Authors.

The Secretary of State for India.

The Author.

Dr. C. G. Kaiser.

The Author.
GETHER (A.) Gedanken über die Naturkraft. Svo. Oldenburg 1862. The Author.

GIRALDES (J. A.) Notice sur la Vie et les Travaux de Sir Benjamin C. Brodie. Svo. Paris 1863. The Author.

GOULD (B. A.) Standard Mean Right Ascensions of Circumpolar and Time Stars. 4to. Washington 1862. The Author.

GRAHAM (J. D.) Annual Report on the Improvement of the Harbors of Lakes Michigan, St. Clair, Erie, Ontario, and Champlain, for 1860. Svo. Washington 1860. The Author.

GROVE (W. R., F.R.S.) The Correlation of Physical Forces. Fourth edition. Svo. London 1862. The Author.

GUMPACH (J. von) The Figure and Dimensions of the Earth. Second edition. Svo. London 1862. The Author.

GUTBERLETUS (H.) Chronologia. Editio tertia. 12mo. Amstelodami 1657. J. Hogg, F.R.S.

HAIDINGER (W., For. Mem. R.S.) Considerations on the Phenomena attending the fall of Meteorites on the Earth. (Excerpt from Phil. Mag.) Svo. London 1861. The Author.

HALL (J.) and WHITNEY (J. D.) Report on the Geological Survey of the State of Wisconsin. Vol. I. Svo. Albany 1862. The State Government.

HANSEN (P. A., For. Mem. R.S.) Einige Bemerkungen über die Säcularänderung der mittleren Länge des Mondes. Svo. Leipzig 1863. The Author.

HARTLEY (Sir C. A.) Description of the Delta of the Danube, and of Works recently executed at the Sulina Mouth. (Excerpt from Proc. Inst. Civ. Eng.) Svo. London 1862. The Author.

HEISTERUS (L.) Institutiones Chirurgicæ. 2 vols. 4to. Amstelodami 1739. J. Hogg, F.R.S.

HIORTDAHL (T.) and IRGENS (M.) Geologiske Undersogelser i Bergens Omegn. 4to. Christiania 1862. The University, Christiania.

HIRN (G. A.) Exposition Analytique et Expérimentale de la Théorie Mécanique de la Chaleur. Svo. Paris 1862. The Author.

HOEVEN (J. van der) Bijdrage tot de Kennis van den Potto van Bosman. 4to. Amsterdam 1851. The Author.

Bijdragen tot de Ontleedkundige Kennis aangaande Nautilus Pompilius, Z. Vooral met Betrekking tot het Mannelijke Dier. 4to. Amsterdam 1856.

Ober de Taal en de Vergelijkende Taalkennis in verband met de Natuurlijke Geschiedenis van den Mensch. Svo.

Berigt omtrent het mij verleende Ontslag als Opperdirecteur van 's Rijks Museum van Natuurlijke Historie te Leiden. Svo. Amsterdam 1860.

HOFMANN (A. W., F.R.S.) On Mauve and Magenta: a Lecture. Svo. London 1862. The Author.

HOGG (J., F.R.S.) On the supposed Scriptural Names of Baalbee or the Syrian Heliopolis. Svo. London 1862. The Author.

On some Inscriptions from Cyprus, copied by Commander Leycester, R.N. Svo. London 1862.

HOOD (W. C.) Statistics of Insanity, embracing a Report of Bethlem Hospital from 1846 to 1860 inclusive. Svo. London 1862. The Author.

HOPE (A. J. B. Beresford) The World's Debt to Art: a Lecture. Svo. London 1863. The Author.
PRESENTS.

HOPE (A. J. B. Beresford) The Condition and Prospects of Architectural Art. Svo. London 1863.

HOSKINS (S. E., F.R.S.) Charles II. in the Channel Islands: a Contribution to his Biography and to the History of his Age. 2 vols. Svo. London 1854.

HUNT (J.) Introductory Address on the Study of Anthropology. Svo. London 1863.

HUXLEY (T. H., F.R.S.) Evidence as to Man's Place in Nature. Svo. London 1863.

JAMES (Colonel Sir H., F.R.S.) Abstracts from the Meteorological Observations taken at the Stations of the Royal Engineers in 1853–59. 4to. London 1862.

Abstracts from the Meteorological Observations taken in the years 1860–61 at the Royal Engineer Office, New Westminster, British Columbia. 4to. London 1862.

Extension of the Triangulation of the Ordnance Survey into France and Belgium, with the Measurement of an Arc of Parallel, in Latitude 52° N., from Valentia in Ireland to Mount Kemmel in Belgium. 4to. London 1862.

JEVONS (W. S.) A serious Fall in the Value of Gold ascertained, and its social Effects set forth. Svo. London 1863.

JOURNALS:

Annali di Matematica pura ed applicata, pubblicati da B. Tortolini. Tomo III. Anno 1860. 4to. Roma 1860.

Astronomische Nachrichten. Bände LIV.–LVIII. 4to. Altona 1861–62.

Bollettino Nautico e Geografico di Roma, diretto da E. Fabri-Scarpellini. Appendice alla Corrispondenza Scientifica di Roma. 4to. Roma 1862.

Cosmos. Tome XX. livr. 25 & 26; Tome XXI.; Tome XXII. livr. 1–24. Svo. Paris 1862–63.

Giornale per l'Abolizione della Pena di Morte: diretto da Pietro Ellero. Nos. 4 & 6. Svo. Bologna 1862–63.

Les Mondes. Tome I. livr. 1–18. Svo. Paris 1863.

Scheikundige Verhandelingen en Onderzoekingen uitgegeven door G. J. Mulder. Derde Deel, tweede Stuk. Svo. Rotterdam 1863.

The American Journal of Science and Arts. Nos. 100–105. Svo. Newhaven 1862–63.

The Athenæum. June to December 1862; January to May 1863. 4to. London.

The Atlantis, or Register of Literature and Science of the Catholic University of Ireland. Vol. IV. Nos. 7 & 8. 8vo. London 1863.

The Builder. Nos. 1011–1063. folio. London 1862–63.

The Chemical News. Nos. 135–184. 4to. London 1862–63.

The Critic. July to December 1862; January to June 1863. folio. London.

The Horological Journal. Nos. 47–53, 55, 57 & 58. Svo. London 1862–63.

The Intellectual Observer. July to December 1862; January to June 1863. Svo. London.

The Journal of Mental Science, edited by J. C. Bucknill. Nos. 42 & 44. Svo. London 1862–63.

The London Review. July to December 1862; January to June 1863. folio. London.

DONORS:

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Secretary of State for War.

Professor Tortolini.

The Observatory.

The Editor.

The Editor.

The Ministry of the Interior of the Netherlands.

The Editors.

The Editor.

The Editors.

The Editor.

The Editor.

The Horological Society.

The Editor.

The Editor.
PRESENTS.

JOURNALS (continued):

The Mining and Smelting Magazine, edited by H. C. Salmon. Vol. I. (Nos.1–6), The Editor.
Vol. II. (Nos. 7–12) & Vol. III. Nos. 13–17. 8vo. London 1862–63.

The Philosophical Magazine. July to December 1862; January to June 1863. W. Francis, Esq.
8vo. London.

The Reader. January to June 1863. folio. London. The Editor.

Verhandelingen en Berigten betrekkelijk het Zeevissen en de Zeevaartkunde, General Sabine, P.R.S.
verzameld en uitgegeven door Jacob Swart. Jahrgang 1854–57. 4 vols.
8vo. Amsterdam.

KANITZ (A.) Sertum florae territorii Nagy-Körösensis. 8vo. Vienne 1862. The Author.

Bemerkungen über einige ungarische botanische Werke. 8vo.
Wien 1862.

KIRKMAN (Rev. T. P., F.R.S.) On a so-called Theory of Causation. 8vo. Liverpool 1862.

KÖLLIKER (A., For. Mem. R.S.) Neue Untersuchungen über die Entwicklung des Bindegewebes. 8vo. Würzburg 1861.

Untersuchungen über die letzten Endigungen der Nerven. Abhandlung I. 8vo. Leipzig 1862.

Ueber das Vorkommen von freien Talgdrüsen am rothen Lippenrande des Menschen. 8vo. Leipzig 1861.

KOLENATI (F. A.) Genera et Species Trichopterorum. Pars altera. 4to. Mosque 1859.

Monographie der europäischen Chiroptern. 8vo. Brünn 1860.

Die forstschädlichen Insekten. 8vo. Brünn 1860.

KONIG (C.) and SIMS (J.) Annals of Botany. 2 vols. 8vo. London 1805.

KUPFFER (A. T., For. Mem. R.S.) Annales de l'Observatoire Physique Central de Russie. Année 1859. 2 vols. 4to. St. Pétersbourg 1862.

LAMONT (J., For. Mem. R.S.) Ueber die tägliche Oscillation des Barometers. The Observatory, Munich.
8vo. München 1862.

LAMY (A.) De l'Existence d'un nouveau Métal, le Thallium. 8vo. Lille 1862.

LAWES (J. B., F.R.S.) and GILBERT (J. H., F.R.S.) The Rothamsted Memoirs on Agricultural Chemistry and Physiology. 2 vols. 8vo. London 1863.

Drawings and Plans of the Lawes Testimonial Laboratory, Rothamsted, Herts, 4to.

LEA (Isaac.) Description of a new Genus of the Family Melanidæ, and of Forty-five new Species, &c. 8vo. Philadelphia 1862.

LEIGHTON (J.) On Japanese Art: a Discourse delivered at the Royal Institution, May 1, 1863. folio. London. The Author.

LEMOINE (P. M.) Des Causes premières de la Vie Animale matériellement démontrées. 8vo. Paris 1863.

LE VERRIER (U. J., For. Mem. R.S.) Annales de l'Observatoire Impérial de Paris. Tomes III.–V. (1839–44), XVI. & XVII. (1860–61). 5 vols. 4to. Paris 1862–63.

LLOYD (Rev. H., F.R.S.) On the probable Causes of the Earth-Currents. 8vo. Dublin 1862.

LOGAN (Sir W. E., F.R.S.) Report on the Geology of Canada. 8vo. Montreal 1862.

Donors:

The Editor.

General Sabine, P.R.S.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author, by Professor W. H. Miller, For. Sec. R.S.

J. Hogg, F.R.S.

The Observatory.

The Observatory, Munich.

The Author.

J. B. Lawes, F.R.S.

The Author.

The Author.

The Observatory.

The Author.

The Author.
PRESENTS.

LOWE (E. J.) Our Native Ferns. Parts V.–XIII. Svo. London.
LUTHER (E.) Astronomische Beobachtungen auf der königlichen Universitätssternwarte zu Königsberg. folio. Königsberg 1862.
——— Declinationes Stellarum fundamentalium novae ex ultimis illi Bessel observationibus derivatae. 4to. Regiomonti 1859.
LYELL (Sir C., F.R.S.) The Geological Evidences of the Antiquity of Man, with Remarks on Theories of the Origin of Species by Variation. Svo. London 1863.
MAACK (R. de) Travels to the Amur, by order of the Geographical Society of St. Petersburg. (In Russian.) 4to; and Atlas in folio. St. Petersburg 1859.
——— Travels along the Valley of the Ussiri. (In Russian.) 2 vols. 4to. St. Petersburg 1861.
M'DONNELL (R.) On the Physiology of Diabetic Sugar in the Animal Economy. 8vo.
——— Exposé de quelques Expériences concernant l’Influence des Agents physiques sur le Développement de la Grenouille Commune. (Excerpt from Journ. de la Phys.) Svo. Paris 1859.
——— Observations on the Anatomy and Physiology of the Kidney. Svo. Dublin 1858.
——— Observations on the Habits and Anatomy of the Lepidosiren annectens. 8vo. Dublin 1860.
——— On the System of the Lateral Line in Fishes. (Excerpt from Trans. R. I. Acad.) 4to. Dublin 1862.
——— On the Formation of Sugar and Amyloid Substances in the Animal Economy. 8vo.
——— On the Organ in the Skate which appears to be the homologue of the Electrical Organ of the Torpedo. (Excerpts from Nat. Hist. Rev.) Svo. 1861.
MACLEAY (W.) Description of Twenty new Species of Australian Coleoptera belonging to the Families Cicindelidae and Cetoniidae. Svo. 1862.
MAGNIN (T. M.) Équations Rectilignes du Cercle, de la Circonférence de la Surface et du Volume de la Sphère. 8vo. Lyon 1855.
MAILLY (E.) Essai sur les Institutions Scientifiques de la Grande-Bretagne et de l’Irlande. III. 12mo. Bruxelles 1863.
MAIN (Rev. R., F.R.S.) Astronomical and Meteorological Observations made at the Radcliffe Observatory, Oxford, in 1859 and 1860. Vol. XX. Svo. Oxford 1862.
MAKEHAUER (E.) Erdmagnetismus und Nordlicht. Svo. Innsbruck 1861.
MALAISE (C.) Note sur quelques Ossements humains fossiles et sur quelques Silex Taillés. 8vo. Bruxelles.
——— De l’Âge des Phyllades Fossilifères de Grand-Manil. 8vo. Bruxelles. (Excerpts from Bull. Acad. Belg.)
MALLET (J. W.) Cotton: the Chemical, Geological, and Meteorological Conditions involved in its successful Cultivation. 12mo. London 1862.
MALLET (R., F.R.S.) Great Neapolitan Earthquake of 1857. The First Principles of Observational Seismology. 2 vols. Svo. London 1862.
——— Marsh-land Engineering. (Excerpt from Pract. Mech. Journ.) 4to. London 1862.

DONORS.

The Author.
The Observatory.
The Author.
The Author.
The Author.
The Author.
The Author.
The Radcliffe Trustees.
Messrs. Chapman and Hall.
The Author.
MAPS, ENGRAVINGS, &c.:

Atlas Écliptique. Cartes Nos. 2 bis, 9, 15, 39 & 46. (Annales de l'Observatoire Impérial; Atlas.) folio. Paris 1862.

Carte du Mexique, représentant le plateau de l'Anahuac et son versant oriental, par H. de Saussure. 2 sheets. 1862.

Carte Géologique des parties de la Savoie, du Piémont, et de la Suisse voisines du Mont Blanc, par A. Favre. (In case.) 1862.

Explication de la Carte Géologique. 8vo. Genève 1862.

Carte Géologique souterraine de la ville de Paris, exécutée par M. Delesse, 1858. (Framed.)

Chart of the Curves of equal Magnetic Variation, 1858. By F. J. Evans, F.R.S. (In case.) 8vo.

Lithographic Copies from two Brass Tables containing Fragments of the Law relating to the Municipality of Malaga. 2 sheets.

Mezzotint Engraving of the Appearance of the Total Solar Eclipse from Harodon Hill, May 11, 1724. By Stukeley.

Three Engravings printed by Photozincography: of the Photographie Establishment of the Ordnance Survey Office; Chapel of the Southampton Infirmary; and Cairo. 1862.

Two Photographs of a fossil human jaw-bone found in the Drift at Abbeville.

MARATH (A.) Memoir on the Polar Distances of the Greenwich Transit-Circle. 4to. Altona 1860.

MILLER (Major-General.) Patrick Miller and Steam Navigation: Letter to B. Woodcroft, vindicating the right of Patrick Miller to be regarded as the first inventor of practical Steam Navigation. 12mo. London 1862.

MILLER (W. H., For. Sec. R.S.) A Tract on Crystallography. 8vo. Cambridge 1863.

MOIGNO (l'Abbé.) Leçons de Calcul Différentiel et de Calcul Intégral. Tome IV. fasc. 1. 8vo. Paris 1861.

MÜHRY (A.) Klimatographische Uebersicht der Erde in einer Sammlung authentischer Berichte, mit hinzugefügten Anmerkungen. 8vo. Leipzig 1862.

MUeller (F., F.R.S.) The Plants indigenous to the Colony of Victoria. Vol. I. Thalamiflora. 4to. Melbourne 1860–62.

MÜLLER (M.) Rig-Veda-Sanhita, the Sacred Hymns of the Brahmans. Vol. IV. 4to. London 1862.

MUSSY (C.) Nouvelles Recherches Expérimentales sur l'Hétérogénie ou Génération Spontanée. 4to. Toulouse 1862.

——— et JOLY (N.) Réfutation de l'une des Expériences capitales de M. Pasteur. 4to. Paris.

OLIVEIRA (B., F.R.S.) A Few Observations upon the Works of the Isthmus of Suez Canal, made during a visit in April 1863. 8vo. London 1863.

ORÉ (Dr.) Fonctions de la Veine-Porte. 8vo. Bordeaux 1861.

O'SULLIVAN (J. L.) Peace the Sole Chance now left for Reunion; a Letter to Professor Morse. 8vo. London 1863.

OWEN (Professor, F.R.S.) On the Extent and Aims of a National Museum of Natural History. 8vo. London 1862.

Donors:

The Observatory.

Mons. de Saussure.

The Author, by Sir C. Lyell, F.R.S.

Mons. Delesse.

The Author.

Señor Berlanga and the Marquis Casa Loring.

The Astronomer Royal.

Colonel Sir H. James, R.E., F.R.S.

Mons. Quatrefages, by G. Busk, F.R.S.

The Author.
PRESENTS.

OWEN (Professor, F.R.S.) Osteological Contributions to the Natural History of the Anthropoid Apes. No. 7. Gorilla. (Excerpt from Zool. Trans.) 4to. London 1851.

PERETTI (P.) Dell’Azione Chimica dell’Acqua sopra i Sali e sopra gli Acidi. 8vo. Roma 1861.

Memoria sopra un Lavoro chimico da C. F. Schönbein. 8vo. Roma 1857.

PHILLIPS (J. A.) Gold-Mining, and the Gold-Discoveries made since 1851. 8vo. London 1862.

PHILLIPS (R.) On Atmospheric Electricity. 8vo. London 1863.

PHIPSON (T. L.) On Sombrerite. On the transformations of Citric, Butyric, and Valerianic Acids, with reference to the artificial production of Succinic Acid. (Excerpts from Journ. Chem. Soc.) 8vo. London.

Phosphorescence, or the Emission of Light by Minerals, Plants, and Animals. 12mo. London 1862.

Mémoire sur la Féculle et les substances qui peuvent la remplacer dans l’Industrie. 8vo. Bruxelles 1855–56.

Essai sur les Animaux Domestiques des Ordres Inférieurs. 8vo. Bruxelles 1857.

Ueber die Phosphorescenz bei den Mineralien, Pflanzen und Thieren. 8vo. Berlin 1858.

La Force Catalytique, ou Études sur les Phénomènes de Contact. 4to. Harlem 1858.

Note sur une Nouvelle Roche, sur le littoral de la Flandre Occidentale; sur quelques Phénomènes Météorologiques observés sur le littoral de la Flandre Occidentale. 4to. Paris 1857. (Excerpts from Comptes Rendus.)

Recherches nouvelles sur le Phosphore. De la Phosphorescence. Sur les Bolets Bleuissants. Protocista, ou la Science de la Création. Analyse de quelques Substances minérales. Sur une Matière colorante extraite du Rhamnus Frangula. (Excerpts from Journ. Soc. Sci. Méd. et Nat. de Bruxelles.) 8vo. Bruxelles 1856–61.

PLANA (J., For. Mem. R.S.) Mémoire sur l’Intégration des Équations Différentielles relatives au mouvement des Comètes. 4to. Turin 1861.

Mémoire sur l’expression du rapport qui (abstraction faite de la chaleur solaire) existe, en vertu de la chaleur d’origine, entre le refroidissement de la masse totale du globe Terrestre et le refroidissement de sa surface. 4to. Turin 1863;

POGGENDORFF (J. C.) Biographisch-literarisches Handwörterbuch zur Geschichte der exacten Wissenschaften. Lieferungen 1–5. 8vo. Leipzig 1859–60.

POGGIOLI (Michelangelo) Alcuni Scritti Inediti, pubblicati per cura di G. A. Poggioli. 8vo. Roma 1862.

PONCELET (J. V., For. Mem. R.S.) Applications d’Analyse et de Géométrie qui ont servi en 1822 de principal fondement au Traité des Propriétés projectives des figures. 8vo. Paris 1862.

PRATT (H. F. A.) On Eccentric and Centric Force: a new theory of projection. 8vo. London 1862.

DONORS.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Editor.

The Author.

The Author.
QUATREFAGES (—. de) Note sur la Mâchoire humaine découverte par Boucher de Perthes dans le diluvium d'Abbeville. (2 copies.) 4to. Paris 1863.

Observations sur la Mâchoire de Moulin-Quignon. 4to. Paris 1863. (Excerpts from Comptes Rendus.)

QUETELET (A., For. Mem. R.S.) Annales de l'Observatoire Royal de Bruxelles. The Observatory. Tome XV. 4to. Bruxelles 1862.

Annuaire de l'Observatoire Royal, 1863. 30e Année. Svo Bruxelles 1862.

Climat de Belgique. 4to. Bruxelles. The Author.

Bolide observé dans la soirée du 4 Mars 1863. Svo. Bruxelles.

Aurore Boréale du 14 au 15 Décembre 1862. Svo. Bruxelles.

Rapport sur un Mémoire de Mahmoud Bey sur l'âge des Pyramides. Svo. Bruxelles.

Étoiles filantes; Orages des mois d'Août et de Septembre 1862, &c. Svo. Bruxelles.

Sur les Nébuleuses; sur l'Hygrométrie, &c. Svo. Bruxelles.

De la Variation Annuelle de l'Inclinaison et de la Déclinaison Magnétique. Svo. Bruxelles.

et HERRICK (E.) Sur les Étoiles Filantes. Svo. Bruxelles.

et SECCHI (A.) Sur le Magnétisme et sur l'Électricité pendant les Orages. Svo. Bruxelles. (Excerpts from Bull. Acad. Roy. Belg.)

REDDIE (J.) The Mechanism of the Heavens, and the New Theories of the Sun's Electro-Magnetic and Repulsive Influence. Svo. London 1862.

REGNAULT (V., For. Mem. R.S.) Relation des Expériences entreprises pour déterminer les Lois et Données Physiques nécessaires au Calcul des Machines à feu. Tome II. 4to. Paris 1862.

RHEES (W. J.) Manual of Public Libraries, Institutions, and Societies in the United States and British Provinces of North America. Svo. Philadelphia 1859.

RIATTI (V.) Sulle Induzioni Elettriche e su di una Corrente magneto-indotta-continua. 2 parts. Svo. Reggio 1860.

ROBERTS (H.) The Essentials of a Healthy Dwelling. Svo. London 1862.

ROTHLAUF (K.) Ueber Vertheilung des Magnetismus in cylindrischen Stahlstäben. Svo. München 1861.

SABINE (General, P.R.S.) On the Cosmical Features of Terrestrial Magnetism. Svo. London 1862.

Report on the repetition of the Magnetic Survey of England. Svo. London 1862.

Circular to the Visitors of the Royal Observatory. Svo. London 1862.

SANTI (G.) Viaggi al Montamiata e le due Provincie Senesi. 3 vols. Svo. Pisa 1795–98.

Mons. Quetelet, For. Mem. R.S.

Dr. Sharpey, Sec. R.S.
PRESENTS.

SARS (M.) Beskrivelse over Lophogaster Typicus, en mærkværdig form af de lavere tifoddede krebsdyr. 4to. Christiania 1862.

SCHÖNFEILD (E.) Beobachtungen von veränderlichen Sternen. (Excerpt from Sitz. Akad. Wien.) 8vo. Wien.

SCHVARCZ (J.) A Görögök Geologiája Jobb Napjaiban. 4to. Pest 1861.

La Géologie Antique et les fragments du Clazoménien. 4to. Pesth 1861.

Földtani Elméletek a Hellénségével nagy Sandor Koraig. Kotet I. Füzet 1 & 2. 8vo. Pest 1861.

Lampsacusí Strato, Adalék a Tudomány Történetéhez. Füzet 1. 8vo. Pest 1861.

A Fajtakérdés Színvonala három év Elött. 8vo. Pest 1861.

On the Failure of Geological Attempts in Greece prior to the epoch of Alexander. Part I. 4to. London 1862.

SCIAPARELLI (G. V.) Notizie sulla Vita e sugli Scritti di Francesco Carlini. 8vo. Milano 1862.

SELLA (Q.) Relazione del Ministro delle Finanze presentata alla Camera dei Deputati. 8vo. Torino 1862.

SHARSWOOD (W.) Catalogue of the Minerals containing Cerium. 8vo. Boston 1861.

Catalogue of the Mineralogical Species Allanite. 8vo.

SLEIGH (F.) Diagram illustrating a Discovery in the relation of Circles to right-lined Geometrical Figures. 8vo. London 1863.

SPITZER (S.) Allgemeine Auflösung der Zahlen-Gleichungen mit einer oder mehreren Unbekannten. 4to. Wien 1851.

Studien über die Integration Linearer Differential-Gleichungen. Fortsetzungen 1 & 2. 8vo. Wien 1861.

STANTON (H. T.) The Natural History of the Tineina. Vol. VII. 8vo. London 1862.

STUDER (B.) Geschichte der physischen Geographie der Schweiz bis 1815. 8vo. Bern 1863.

SWAVING (Dr. C.) Eerste Bijdrage tot de Kennis der Schedels van Volken in den Indischen Archipel. (Excerpt from Natuurk. Tijdschrift.) 8vo. Batavia.

TATE (G.) Antiquities of Yevering Bell and Three-Stone Burn, among the Cheviots, in Northumberland. (Excerpt from Berw. Nat. Club Proc.) 8vo. Berwick 1862.

TORCIA (M.) Relazione dell’ultima eruzione del Vesuvio accaduta nel mese di Agosto di questo anno 1779. 8vo. Napoli 1779.

TORTOLINI (B.) Sulla Divisione degli Archi di una curva del quart’ordine. 4to. Modena 1857.

Sulla Riduzione di un Integrale alle Funzioni Ellittiche. Ricerche analytiche sopra le Attrazioni esercitate da una linea piana, &c. Sulla Curva Logocielica. Sopra alcune Curve derivate dall’Ellisse e dal Circolo. Quadratura della Doppia Ellissoide di Rivoluzione. (Excerpts from Annali di Matematica.) 4to. Roma 1860–63.

TYNDALL (J., F.R.S.) Heat considered as a Mode of Motion; being a Course of Twelve Lectures delivered at the Royal Institution. 8vo. London 1863.

MDCCLXIII.

DONORS.

The University, Christiania.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

Dr. Sharpey, Sec. R.S.

The Author.

The Author.
PRESENTS.

VIGNOLES (C., F.R.S.) Model of the Passage of the Tudela and Bilbao Railway in the International Exhibition of 1862. Svo. London 1862.

VOLPICELLI (P.) Sulla Elettricità dell'Atmosfera, seconda e terza Note. 4to. Roma 1861.

Sulla Polarità elettrostatica, quinta Comunicazione. 4to. Roma 1862.

WALLICH (G. C.) The North-Atlantic Sea-Bed: comprising a Diary of the Voyage on board H.M.S. 'Bulldog' in 1860. 4to. London 1862.

WARD (A. F.) Universal System of Semaphoric Color Signals. Svo. Philadelphia 1862.

WATTS (H.) Dictionary of Chemistry, and the Allied Branches of other Sciences. Parts 1–4. Svo. London 1863.

WEITENWEBER (W. R.) Zum Andenken an Maceslaw Hanka in Prag. Svo. Prag.

Ein Beitrag zur Medicinischen Literargeschichte. 8vo. Prag.

WHEATLEY (H. B.) Of Anagrams: a Monograph treating of their History, with an Introduction. 12mo. London 1862.

WHITING (G.) The Products and Resources of Tasmania, as illustrated in the International Exhibition 1862. Svo. Hobart Town 1862.

WILLIAMS (J.) Account of a Deposit found in an Ancient Chinese Statue of Buddha, June 11, 1862. Svo. London 1863.

WORMS (H.) The Earth and its Mechanism; being an Account of the various proofs of the Rotation of the Earth. 8vo. London 1862.

WÜLLERSTORF-URBAIR (B. von) Reise der österreichischen Fregatte Novara um die Erde in den Jahren 1857–59. 3 vols. Svo. Wien 1861.

Reise der österreichischen Fregatte Novara: Nautisch-physicalischer Theil, Abth. 1 & 2. 4to. Wien 1862.

Indischer Oceaan. Beilagen 1–7. (7 Maps.)

YATES (James, F.R.S.) On the Excess of Water in the Region of the Earth about New Zealand, its Causes and Effects. (Excerpt from Edinb. New Phil. Journ.) 8vo. 1862.

DONORS.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Editor.

The Author.

Messrs. Longman.

The I. R. Navy Board, Vienna.

The Author.