# Front Matter

**Author(s):** Anonymous  
**Year:** 1706  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions (1683-1775)  
**Volume:** 25  
**Pages:** 14 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-102664  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/102664>  

---

The only official reprint
authorized by
The Royal Society of London
PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS.

Giving some ACCOUNT OF THE Present Undertakings, Studies and Labours OF THE INGENIOUS In many Considerable Parts of the World.

VOL. XXV. For the Years 1706 and 1707.

LONDON,

Printed for B. Walford, Printer to the Royal Society, at the Prince's Arms in St. Paul's Church-yard. MDCC VIII.
TO HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE PRINCE,

This Twenty Fifth Volume OF Philosophical Transactions Is most humbly Dedicated,

BY His Most Dutiful, AND Most Obedient Servant,

HANS SLOANE,
Soc. Reg. Secr.
PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS.

For the Months of January, February, and March, 1705.

The CONTENTS.

I. A Letter from Mr Ralph Thoresby, F. R. S. to Dr Hans Sloane, R. S. Secr. concerning some Roman Inscriptions found at York, proving that the Ninth Legion sometime resided there.

II. De Quadrupedibus Philippensibus Tractat. a Reverendo Georg. Jos. Camel. transmissus Jacobo Petiver, Pharmacop. & Societ. Regiae Soc. Londini.

III. Microscopical Observations on the Seeds of several East-India Plants, by Mr Anthony van Leeuwenhoek, F. R. S.

IV. A Letter from the Reverend Mr Morton, A. M. and S. R. S. to Dr Hans Sloane, S. R. Secr. Containing a Relation of River and other Shells digg'd up, together with various Vegetable Bodies, in a Bituminous Marshy Earth, near Mears Ashby in Northamptonshire: With some Reflections thereupon: As also an Account of the Progress he has made in the Natural History of Northamptonshire.

V. An account of a very large Tumour in the fore-part of the Neck, in which was contain'd a Bony Substance, &c. By Dr James Douglas.

VI. Part of a Letter from the Reverend Mr W. Derham; F. R. S. concerning a Glade of Light observed in the Heavens.

VII. An Account of an Experiment made before the Royal Society, touching the Proportion of the Weight of Air, to the Weight of a like Bulk of Water, without knowing the quantity of either. By Mr Fra. Hauksbee, F. R. S.

VIII. An Experiment made at Gresham College, shewing that the seemingly spontaneous Ascension of Water, in small Tubes open at both ends, is the same in Vacuo as in the open Air. By Mr Fr. Hauksbee, F. R. S.
PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS.

For the Months of April, May, and June, 1706.

The CONTENTS.

I. A Description of a Roman Sedatory, or Hypocaustum, found at Wroxeter in Shropshire, Anno 1701. By Mr John Lyster. Communicated to the Royal Society by John Harwood, LL.D. and F.R.S.

II. A Letter from Dr John Harwood, LL.D. and F.R.S. to Dr Hans Sloane, R.S. Secr. concerning the forementioned Hypocaustum. With Part of two Letters from Mr William Baxter to Dr Harwood, relating to Wroxeter, and the Hypocausta of the Ancients.

III. A Letter from Dr William Musgrave, Fellow of the College of Physicians, and R.S. to Dr Hans Sloane, R.S. Secr. concerning the Jaundice, occasioned by a Stone obstructing the Ductus communis bilarius, which was afterwards voided by Stool.

IV. Part of a Letter from Mr Ralph Thoresby F.R.S. giving a farther Account of an Eruption of Waters in Craven.

V. Observations of the Solar Eclipse May 1-12, 1706. At the Royal Observatory at Greenwich, &c. communicated by the Reverend Mr John Flamsted, Math. Reg. & F.R.S.

VI. An Abstract of a Letter written from Geneva, May the 31st, 1706; N.S. by Monsieur J-Chr. Facio Duillier, R.S. S. to his Brother Mr Nic. Facio, R.S. S. Containing some Observations of the Sun's Eclipse, on the 12th of May, 1706. N.S.

VII. Pars Epistola a Cl. D. Joh. Jac. Scheuchzer, M.D. Tigur. & Societatis Reg. Lond. Soc. ad D. Jacobum Petiver, dicta Societ Soc. de Eclipsi Solis totali Die 12 Maij Tiguri observata.

VIII. An Account of the Death and Dissection of John Bayles of Northampton, reputed to have been 130 years old. By Dr James Keill.

IX. The Construction and Properties of a new Quadratrix to the Hyperbola, by Mr ... Perks. Communicated by Mr Abr. de Moivre, F.R.S.

X. Samuelis Dale Pharmacologia seu Monographiae ad Materiam Medicam Supplementum: Medicamenta Officinalia simplicia priore Libro omnissima complectens: Ut & Notas Generum Characteristicas, Specierum Synonyma, Differentias & Vires. Cum duplici Indice, generali altero Nominum & Synonymorum precipuorum, altero Anglico-Latino, in gratiam Tyronum.
PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS.

For the Months of July, August and September, 1706.

The CONTENTS.

I. De Monstris, quasi Monstris & Monstrofis; item de Serpentibus, &c. Philippensibus, ex MS. R. P. Geo. Jof. Camelli. Communicavit D. Jac. Petiver. Pharmacop. Lond. & S. R. S.

II. An Account of an Experiment made before the Royal Society at Gresham College, together with a Repetition of the same, touching the Production of a Considerable Light upon a slight Attraction of the Hands on a Glass Globe Exhausted of its Air: With other Remarkable Occurrences. By Mr Fra. Hauksbee, F. R. S.

III. A Letter from Mr Samuel Dale to Dr Hans Sloane, R. S. Secr. giving an Account of what Manuscripts were left by the Reverend Mr John Ray, together with some Anatomical Observations made at Padua by the said Mr Ray.

IV. Of Hydatides inclosed with a Stony Crust in the Kidney of a Sheep. By Mr W. Cowper, F. R. S.

V. Microscopical Observations on the Structure of the Spleen, and the Proboscis of a Flea. By Mr Anthony Van Leeuwenhoek, F. R. S.
PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS.

For the Months of October, November and December, 1706.

The CONTENTS.

I. Part of a Letter from Robert Sibbald, Kt, to Dr Hans Sloane, R. S. Secr. concerning a Second Volume of his Prodromus Historiae Naturalis Scotiae; with a Description of the Pediculus Cæti, &c.

II. An Account of a Hydrops Ovarii, with a new and exact Figure of the Glandulae Renales, and of the Uterus in a Puerpera. Communicated by Dr Douglas, F. R. S.

III. An Account of an Experiment made before the Royal Society at Gresham-Colledge, touching the Extraordinary Electricity of Glass, produceable on a Smart Attrition of it; with a Continuation of Experiments on the same Subject, and other Phænomena. By Mr Fr. Hauksbee, F. R. S.

IV. Vindicæ Matheæcos Universalis Gregorianæ contra secundos Abbatis Galloysii impetus in Historia Acad. Scient. An. MDCCIII.

V. An Account of a Storm of Rain that fell at Denbigh in Wales: Communicated to Dr Hans Sloane, R. S. Secr.

VI. An Observation of a Tumor on the Neck, full of Hydaticides, cured by Mr Anthony Hewnden, Surgeon: Communicated by Dr Edw. Tyson, F. R. S.

VII. Part of a Letter from Mr Robert Taylor, to Dr Hans Sloane, R. S. Secr. concerning a Monstrous Birth.

VIII. An Account of Dr Ehm's Treatise of St George's Bath by Landeck, in the Lordship of Glats near Silesia.
PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS.

For the Months of January, February, and March, 1707.

The CONTENTS.

I. Observations made at Rome, by the late Reverend Mr. John Ray, of the Comet which appeared Anno 1664. Communicated to the Publisher by Mr. Samuel Dale.

II. Æquationum Cubicarum & Biquadraticarum, tum Analytica, tum Geometrica & Mechanica, Resolutio Universalis, à J. Colson.

III. Æquationum quarundam Potestatis tertiae, quintae, septimae, nonae, & superiorum, ad infinitum usque per gendo, in terminis finitis, ad instar Regularum pro Cubicis quæ vocantur Cardani, Resolutio Analytica. Per Abr. De Moivre, R. S. S.

IV. Several Experiments shewing the strange Effects of the Effluvia of Glass, producible on the Motion and Attraction of it. By Mr. Fr. Hauksbee, F. R. S.

V. Tabula exhibens Cæli tempestates, & mutationes, ter unoquoque die: Item Plagam Ventorum, & Nubium; Altitudinem Mercurii in Barometro, & Spirituum in Thermometro; & denique Pluviae quantitatem, quæ quibadam diebus, & unoquoque Mensæ, per Infundibulum 12 pollices latum, apud Upminster in Comitatu Essexia decidebat Anno 1705. Per W. Derham Rectorem Upminsterensem, & S. R. S.

VI. An Account of Balls of Hair taken from the Uterus and Ovaria of several Women; by Mr. James Yoneg, F.R.S. Communicated to Dr. Hans Sloane, R. S. Secr.
PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS.

For the Months of April, May, and June, 1707.

The CONTENTS.

I. Felipis Lunaris Tiguri Observata à Joh. Jacobo, & Johanne Schevchzeris, Fratribus, M.D. die 17 Apr. 1707.

II. An Essay on the Invention of Printing, by Mr. John Bagford; with an Account of his Collections for the same, by Mr. Humphrey Wanley, F.R.S. Communicated in two Letters to Dr. Hans Sloane, R.S. Secr.

III. An Account of a Pyramidal Appearance in the Heavens, observed near Upminster in Essex, by the Reverend Mr. William Derham, F.R.S.

IV. An Account of an Experiment, confirming one lately made, touching the Production of Light, by the Effluvia of one Glass falling on another in Motion. By Mr. Fr. Hauksbee, F.R.S.

V. An Account of an Experiment made before the Royal Society at Gresham College, May 28, 1707. Touching the Difficulty of Separating two Hemispheres, upon the injecting of an Atmosphere of Air on their outward Surfaces, without withdrawing the included Air. By Mr. Fr. Hauksbee, F.R.S.

VI. Some Natural Observations made in the Parishes of Kinardsey and Donington in Shropshire, by the Reverend Mr. George Plaxton. Communicated by Mr. Ralph Thoresby, to Dr. Hans Sloane, R.S. Secr.

VII. An Account of the Cape of Good Hope, by Mr. John Maxwell. Communicated by the Reverend Dr. John Harris, F.R.S.

VIII. Epistola, in qua ratio redditur Libri nuper editi, cui Titulus, De Arthritide Anomala, five Interna, Dissertatio. Auctore Guil. Masgrave, M.D. Coll. Med. Lond. & Reg. Societ. Socio.

IX. An Account of a Book, intituled, The Whole Art of Husbandry, &c. By J. M. Esq., F.R.S.
Philosophical Transactions.

For the Months of July, August, and September, 1707.

The CONTENTS.

I. De Conchyliis Turbinatis, Bivalvibus & Univalvibus, item de Mineralibus, Fossilibus, & Thermis Phillippensis, ex MSS. R. P. Geo. Jos. Kamei. Communicavit D. Jacobus Petiver, Pharmacop. Londin. & Soc. Reg. S.

II. An Account of an Experiment, touching the quantity of Air produced from a certain quantity of Gunpowder fired in common Air; by Mr F. Hauksbee, F. R. S.

III. An Experiment shewing, that the Spring or Constituent Parts of Air are capable to suffer such disorder, by a violent impulse, as to require time to recover their Natural State; by Mr Fr. Hauksbee, F. R. S.

IV. Part of a Letter from Dr Archibald Adams of Norwich, to Dr Edward Tyson, Fellow of the College of Physicians and Royal Society; concerning a monstrous Calf, and some things observable in the Anatomy of a humane Ear.

V. An Extract of a Letter to his Excellency Signior Francisco Cornaro, Ambassador from the Republick of Venice to the Queen of Great Britain, &c. By Anthony Van Leeuwenhoek, F. R. S. Containing Microscopical Observations on the Salts of Pearls, Oyster-shells, &c.

VI. Part of a Letter written to Signior Antonio Magliabechi, by Mr Anthony Van Leeuwenhoek, F. R. S. concerning the Particles of Silver dissolved in Aqua Fortis, &c.

VII. An Account of a Book, entitled, A Voyage to the Islands of Madera Barbadoes, Nieves, St Christophers, and Jamaica; with the Natural History of the Herbs and Trees, four-footed Beasts, Fishes, Birds, Insects, Reptiles, &c. of the last of those Islands. To which is prefixed an Introduction, wherein is an Account of the Inhabitants, Air, Waters, Diseases, Trade, &c. of that Place, and some Relations concerning the Neighbouring Continent and Islands of America. Illustrated with the Figures of the Things described, which have not been heretofore engraved, in large Copper Plates as big as the Life. By Hans Sloane, M. D. Fellow of the College of Physicians, and Secretary of the Royal Society. In two Volumes, in fol.

VIII. A Letter from Mr William Baxter, to Dr Hans Sloane, R. S. Secr. containing an Account of a Book intitled Archaeologia Britannica, giving some Account additional to what has been hitherto published of the Languages, Histories and Customs of the Original Inhabitants of Great Britain; from Collections and Observations in Travels through Wales, Bas Bretagne, Ireland and Scotland. By Edward Lhuyd, M. A. of Jesus College, Keeper of the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford. Vol. I. Oxford Printed at the Theater for the Author, 1707. And delivered at the Ashmolean Museum.
PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS.

For October, November, and December, 1707.

The CONTENTS.

I. Microscopical Observations on the Cortex Peruvianus: By Mr. Anthony Van Leeuwenhoek, F. R. S.

II. A Letter to the Royal Society, from Mr. Anthony Van Leeuwenhoek, F. R. S. Concerning the Whiteness on the Tongue in Fevers, &c.

III. Part of a Letter from Dr. Scipio des-Moulins, to Dr. Hans Sloane, R. S. Secr. Concerning a Mineral Water at Canterbury.

IV. An Account of the Cure of two Sinuous Ulcers possessing the Space of the whole Arm; with an Extraordinary Supply of a Callus which fully answers the Os Humeri lost in time of Cure. From Mr. John Fawler, Surgeon to the Sick and Wounded at Deal, to Dr. William Cockburn, F. R. S.

V. Part of a Letter from Richard Waller Esq; S. R. S. to Dr. Hans Sloane, R. S. Secr. Concerning two Deaf Persons, who can speak and understand what is said to them by the Motion of the Lips.

VI. A Relation of a Deaf and Dumb Person, who recover'd his Speech and Hearing after a Violent Fever: With some other Medicinal and Chirurgical Observations. By Mr. Martin Martin.

VII. Observatio Eclipseis Lunaris peracta Bostonij Nov. Anglorum, die quinto Aprilis vespere, A. D. 1707. a Tho. Brattle.