# Back Matter

**Author(s):** Anonymous  
**Year:** 1851  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London  
**Volume:** 141  
**Pages:** 22 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-108422  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/108422>  

---

INDEX

TO THE

PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS

FOR THE YEAR 1851.

A.

Airy (G. B., Esq., Astronomer Royal). On the Relation of the Direction of the Wind to the Age of the Moon, as inferred from observations at the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, from 1840 November to 1847 December, 411.

Alizarine, one of the products of rubian, 447. The true colouring matter of madder, 459.

Ammonia, on the oxidation of, in the human body, and on nitrification, 399. Experiments with carbonate of ammonia, 401; with liquor ammoniae, 403; with tartrate of ammonia, 404; with muriate of ammonia, 405; with urea, 406.

Amphibia, on the impregnation of the ovum in, 169.

Amylamine, 384; action of bromide—385, and of iodide of amyl upon, 387.

Animal Chemistry, contributions to, 399.

Annual variation of the magnetic declination at various periods of the day, 635.

Appendicularia and Doliolum, anatomy of, 595.

Archipelago, Eastern, Magnetic Survey of, 287.

Atmospheric magnetism, 43–85.

B.

Bakerian Lecture, the, 1.

Beechey (Capt. F. W., R.N.). Report of further Observations upon the Tidal Streams of the North Sea and English Channel, with Remarks upon the Laws by which those Streams appear to be governed, 703.

Bodies, gaseous, non-expansion of, by magnetic force, 7.

Bodies, magnetic condition of, 7.

Bronwin (Rev. Brice). On the Solution of Linear Differential Equations, 461.

MDCCCLII.
C.

Channel tidal streams, 703; extent of, 705.
Clarke (J. Lockhart, Esq.). Researches into the Structure of the Spinal Chord, 607.
Columns (white) of the spinal chord, 615.
Conduction, magnecrystallic, 39.
Conduction, magnetic, 29.
Conduction-polarity, 34.
Cooled Air, effect of, in atmospheric magnetism, 49.
Cylinder, on the rolling motion of, 549.

D.

Dew-point, on the relation of the temperature of, to the air and evaporation temperatures, 141.
Diaymylamine, action of bromide of amyl upon, 386.
Diethylamylamine, action of iodide of methyl upon, 376.
Diethylaniline, action of iodide of ethyl upon, 378.
Diffusion of Liquids, observations on, third memoir, 483. Comparison of salts of potash and soda, ibid.
Doliolum, remarks on the anatomy of, 595.
Dover tidal streams, peculiarities of, 705.

E.

Earth, on the figure and primitive formation of the, 495. Relations between the interior structure and the phenomena observed at its surface, 511. The pressures of the shell and nucleus at their surface of contact, ibid. The variation of gravity at the earth's surface, 515. The laws of density of the shell and nucleus, 522. The forms of the strata of the shell, 525. The principal moments of inertia of the earth, 529. On the existence of a solid internal nucleus, 532. The direction of fissures in the shell which might be produced by the pressures before considered, 533. On a zone of least disturbance, 535. Calculation of constants, 541. Geological deductions, 543.
Electricity, Experimental Researches in.—Twenty-fourth series, 1. § 30. On the possible relations of gravity to electricity, 1.—Twenty-fifth series, 7. § 31. On the magnetic and diamagnetic condition of bodies, ibid. ¶ i. Non-expansion of gaseous bodies by magnetic force, ibid. ¶ ii. Differential magnetic action, 17. ¶ iii. Magnetic characters of oxygen, nitrogen and space, 20; of oxygen, ibid.; of nitrogen, 24; of space, 25.—Twenty-sixth series, 29. § 32. Magnetic conducting power, ibid. ¶ i. Magnetic conduction, ibid. ¶ ii. Conduction-polarity, 34. ¶ iii. Magnecrystallic conduction, 39. ¶ iv. Atmospheric magnetism, 43.—Twenty-seventh series, 85. § 33. Atmospheric magnetism continued, ibid.
Elliot (Capt. C. M.). Magnetic Survey of the Eastern Archipelago, 287.
English Channel and German Ocean, on the tidal streams of, 703.
Ethyl, action of bromide and iodide of, upon triethylamine, 358.
Ethylamylaniline, action of iodide of methyl upon, 379.
Exogenous processes of vertebrae, 719.
INDEX.

F.

Faraday (Prof. M.). The Bakerian Lecture. Experimental Researches in Electricity. Twenty-fourth Series, 1. Twenty-fifth Series, 7. Twenty-sixth Series, 29. Twenty-seventh Series, 85. Fishes, structure and development of the scales and bones of, 643.

G.

Graham (Prof. Thomas). Additional Observations on the Diffusion of Liquids. Third Memoir, 483. Gravity, relation of, to electricity, 1. Grey substance of the spinal chord, 608.

H.

Hennessy (H.). The Figure and Primitive Formation of the Earth, or Researches in Terrestrial Physics. Part I., 495. Part II., 511. Hobarton and Toronto, magnetic disturbances at, 123. Hofmann (Prof. A. W.). Researches into the Molecular Constitution of Organic Bases. Second Memoir, 257. Holland, cause of the retardation of tidal streams, near the coast of, 707. Huxley (Thomas Henry). Observations upon the Anatomy and Physiology of Salpa and Pyrosoma, 567. Remarks upon Appendicularia and Doliolum, two genera of the Tunicata, 595. Hydrogen, magnetic characters of, 24.

I.

Impregnation of the ovum in the Amphibia, on the, 169. Indian Archipelago, magnetic survey of, 287.

J.

Jones (H. Bence, M.D.). Contributions to Animal Chemistry. Paper V. On the Oxidation of Ammonia in the Human Body, with some Remarks on Nitrification, 399.

L.

Lake District of Cumberland and Westmoreland, on the meteorology of, 149. Linear Differential Equations, on the solution of, 461. Liquids, on the diffusion of, 483.

M.

Madder, on the colouring and other properties of, 433. Magnetic action, differential, 17. Magnetic characters of oxygen, hydrogen and space, 20.
Magnetic declination, inclination and intensity, mean diurnal variation of, at the Cape of Good Hope, 117, 118. At St. Helena, 119, 120. At Singapore, 121, 122.

Magnetic declination, annual variation of, at different periods of the day, 635.

Magnetic disturbances, periodical laws discoverable in the mean effects of, 123.

Magnetic force, general distribution of, 53.

Magnetic Survey of the Eastern Archipelago, 287.

Magnetic variation, diurnal, 56. Annual, 73. Local, 98 et seq.

Magnetism, atmospheric, 43–85.

Magnetism, on a mathematical theory of, 243–269. Part I. On magnets and the mutual force between magnets, 244. On the laws of magnetic force and the distribution of magnetism in magnetized matter, 248. On the imaginary magnetic matter, by means of which the polarity of a magnetized body may be represented, 250. Determination of the mutual actions between any given portions of magnetized matter, 257. On the solenoidal and lamellar distributions of magnetism, 269.

Mathematical theory of magnetism. Part I., 243, 269.

Megatherium, osteology of, 719.

Membrana tympani, on the structure of, 159–167.

Methyl, action of ammonia upon iodide of, 381.

Methyldiethyldiammonium, action of heat upon oxide of, 377.

Miller (J. F., Esq., F.R.S.). On the relation of the Air and Evaporation Temperatures to the Temperature of the Dew-point, as determined by Mr. Glaisher's Hygrometrical Tables, founded on the Factors deduced from the six-hourly observations made at the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, 141.

On the Meteorology of the Lake District, with a continuation of the results of Experiments on the Fall of Rain at various heights, up to 3166 feet above the sea-level, 149.

On the Meteorology of the Lake District of Cumberland and Westmoreland, including the results of Experiments on the Fall of Rain at various heights, up to 3166 feet above the sea-level. Fourth paper for 1850, 623.

Molecular constitution of organic bases, 257.

Moon, age of, with relation to the direction of the wind, 411.

Moseley (The Rev. H., F.R.S.). On the Rolling Motion of a Cylinder, 549.

N.

Nerve-vesicles of the spinal chord, 614.

Nerves, spinal, origin of, 616.

Nerve-tubes of the spinal chord, 618.

Newport (George, F.R.S.). On the Impregnation of the Ovum in the Amphibia. First Series, 169.

Nitric acid in rain-water, 409.

Nitric acid, on the action of, on various vegetables, 413. Populus balsamifera, ibid. Nitropopulic acid, 414. Nitropopulate of potash, 417; of silver, 418; of soda, ibid.; of baryta, 419; of lead, ibid. Populus nigra, ibid. Acids resembling nitropopulic, 421. Salix Russelliana, ibid. Spartium scoparium, 422. Scoparine, ibid. Sparteine, 425. Nitropicrate of, 426. Chloride of platinum and sparteine, 427. Double chloride of mercury and spar-
teine, 428. Bichloride of platinum and sparteine, 429. Double mercurial chloride of sparteine, *ibid.* Properties of sparteine and of scoparine, 430.

*Nitrogen*, magnetic condition of, 45.

*Nitropopulic acid*, 414.

**O.**

Oceanic and Channel streams, mixed tides, 704.

*Organic bases*, on the molecular constitution of, 257.

*Ovum*, on the impregnation of, in the Amphibia, 169. Changes of, within the body, 172. Changes after spawning and impregnation, 183. Susceptibility of the ovum, 191. On the agency of spermatozoa in impregnation, 203. Nature of that agency, 212. How affected by chemical media 224—and by mechanical media, 234.

*Owen (Professor)*. On the Megatherium (*Megatherium Americanum*, Blumenbach), 719. Part I. Preliminary observations on the Exogenous Processes of Vertebrae, 719.

*Oxygen*, magnetic characters of, 20. Magnetic condition of, 47.

**P.**

*Parallax*, observations on stars favourably situated for the investigation of, 333.

*Potash and soda*, comparative observations on the diffusion of solutions of their salts, 483.

*Processes*, exogenous, of vertebrae, 719.

*Pyrosoma*, on the anatomy of, 580.

**R.**

*Rain*, on the fall of, in the Lake District, 149.

*Rain*, on the fall of, at various heights in the Lake District of Cumberland and Westmoreland, 623.

Rubian and its products of decomposition, 433. Properties of, 440. Composition of, 442. Action of sulphuric and muriatic acid on, 444. Alizarine, 447. Verantine, 449. Rubiretine, 453.

Rubianine, 454. Sugar, 456.

Rubianine, one of the products of decomposition of rubian, 454.

Rubiretine, one of the products of decomposition of rubian, 453.

**S.**

*Sabine (Lieut.-Col. R.A.)*. On Periodical laws discoverable in the mean effects of the larger Magnetic Disturbances, 123.

On the Annual Variation of the Magnetic Declination, at different periods of the day, 635.

*Salpa and Pyrosoma*, on the anatomy and physiology of, 567. The structure of Salpa, 568. The anatomy of Pyrosoma, 580. The homology of structure of Salpa and Pyrosoma, and of these with the ordinary Ascidians, 585. History of the knowledge of Salpæ, 589.

*Scales and Bones of Fishes*, on the structure and development of, 643.
Schunck (Edward, F.R.S.). On Rubian, and its Products of Decomposition, 433.

Scoparine, 422. Properties of, 430.

Sparteine, and its compounds, 425 et seq. Properties of, 430.

Spermatozoa, on the agency of, in impregnation, 203.

Spinal Chord, researches into the structure of, 607. Of the grey substance of, 608. Nature and arrangement of its fibres, 609. Changes in its form, 611. Nerve-vesicles of the chord, 614. Its white columns, 615. Origin of the spinal nerves, 616. Nerve-tubes of the chord, 618.

Stars favourably situated for the investigation of Parallax, results of observations on, 333.

Stenhouse (John Ph.D., F.R.S.). On the Action of Nitric Acid on various Vegetables, with a particular examination of Spartium scoparium, or Common Broom, 413.

Storms, magnetic, 77.

Sugar, as a product of rubian, 456.

Survey, magnetic, of the Eastern Archipelago, 287.

T.

Terrestrial Physics, Researches in. Part I., 495. Part II., 511.

Thomson (William, M.A., F.R.S.E.). On a Mathematical Theory of Magnetism. Part I., 243-269.

Tidal streams of the English Channel and German Ocean, Report upon, 703. Method of making the observations, ibid. Oceanic and Channel streams—mixed tides, 704. Extent of the Channel streams—meeting of the streams, 705. Motion of their limiting lines—peculiarity of the Dover stream, ibid. Steadiness of the stream in the Channel—on a nearly simultaneous motion of the stream, 706. Retardation of turn of the stream near the coast of Holland—its cause, 707. Time of slack water in the Channel compared with time of high water, Dover, 708. Rotary motion of the water in the mixed tides—erroneous opinions respecting it, 709. The time of tide at which the stream attains its maximum speed, 710. Direction in which the stream turns, 712. Tide and half-tide, ibid. Formation of a combined wave in the Strait of Dover, 713. Influence of the combined wave over the stream of the Channel—tidal streams of the Irish Sea similarly influenced, 714. Explanation of the mechanical action of the water by which the streams of the Channel are produced, 715. Results of inquiry, 716.

Tide and half-tide, 712.

Toronto and Hobarton, magnetic disturbances at, 123.

Toynbee (Joseph, F.R.S.). On the Structure of the Membrana Tympani of the Human Ear, 159. Appendix, 167.

Triethylamine, action of bromide and iodide of ethyl upon, 358. Action of iodide of methyl upon, 372. Action of iodide of amyl upon, 373.

Triethylammonium, oxide of, 362. Reaction of, with metallic oxides, 363. Double salts of, 367.

Tunicata, anatomy and physiology of genera of, 595.

V.

Vegetables, on the action of nitric acid upon, 413.

Verantine, one of the products of decomposition of rubian, 449.

Vertebræ, on the exogenous processes of, 719.
W.

Williamson (W. C.). Investigation into the Structure and Development of the Scales and Bones of Fishes, 643.

Wind, on the direction of, with relation to the age of the moon, 411.

Wrottesley (Lord, F.R.S.). On the Results of Periodical Observations of the Positions and Distances of Nineteen of the Stars in Sir John Herschel's Lists of Stars, favourably situated for the investigation of Parallax, 333.
PRESENTS

RECEIVED BY

THE ROYAL SOCIETY,

WITH THE

NAMES OF THE DONORS.

From November 1850 to June 1851.

PRESENTS. DONORS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES.

Amsterdam:—

Verhandelingen der eerste Klasse van het Koninklijk-Nederlandsche Instituut. Derde Reeks. Tweede und 3e Deel. 4to. Amsterdam 1850.

Jaarboek van het K. N. Instituut voor 1850. 8vo. Amsterdam 1850.

Tijdschrift voor de Wis- en Natuurkundige Wetenschappen. 3e and 4e Aflevering. Derde Deel. 8vo. Amsterdam 1850.

The Institute.

Berlin:—

Abhandlungen der Königlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin. Aus dem Jahre 1848. 8vo. Berlin 1850.

Monatsbericht. March to Dec. 1850. Jan. and Feb. 1851.

Die Fortschritte der Physik im Jahre 1847. 3er Jahrgang. 8vo. Berlin 1850.

The Academy.

Die Fortschritte der Physik im Jahre 1847. 3er Jahrgang. 8vo. Berlin 1850.

The Physical Society.

Berwick:—History and Proceedings of the Berwickshire Naturalists' Club. Nos. 1, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 13, 14. Ten Parts, 1831 to 1849, and No. 1, Vol. III. 8vo.

The Club.

Bombay:—Transactions of the Geographical Society. Vol. IX. 8vo. Bombay 1850.

The Society.

Breslau:—

Novorum Actorum Academiae Caesareae Leopoldino-Carolinae Naturae Curiosorum Vol. XXII. p. 2. 4to. Breslau 1850.

Uebersicht der Arbeiten und Veränderungen der Schlesischen Gesellschaft für vaterländische Kultur im Jahre 1849. 4to. Breslau 1850.

The Academy.

Brussels:—

Mémoires de l'Académie Royale de Belgique. Tome XXIV. 4to. Bruxelles 1850.

Mémoires Couronnés et Mémoires des Savants Etrangers de l'Académie Royale de Belgique. Tome XXIII. 4to. Bruxelles 1850.

Mémoires de l'Académie Royale de Bruxelles. Tome XXV. 4to. Bruxelles 1850.

The Academy.

MDCCCLII.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Brussels:—
Bulletins de l'Académie Royale de Belgique. Tome XVI. 2nd Part. Tome XVII. 1st Part. 8vo. Bruxelles 1850.
Annuaire de l'Académie Royale de Belgique. 1850.
Catalogue des Livres de la Bibliothèque de l'Académie Royale de Belgique. 8vo. Bruxelles 1850.
Observations Critiques sur le livre de M. Gruyer intitulé "Des Causes Conditionelles et Productrices des Idées," avec les Réponses de l'Auteur. 8vo. Paris 1846.

Calcutta:—
Journal of the Agricultural and Horticultural Society of India. Part 1. Vol. VII.
Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal. Nos. 201, 211, 212. 40 to 43, New Series. No. 3, 1850.

Copenhagen:—
Der Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskabs Skrifter. Femte række. Naturvidenskabelig og Matematiske afdeling. Første Bind. 4to. Kjøbenhavn 1849.
Oversigt over det Kgl. Danske Videnskabernes Selskabs Forhandlinger. Aar. 1847-48. 8vo. Kjøbenhavn.

Cornwall:—
Thirty-seventh Annual Report of the Council of the Royal Geological Society of Cornwall. 8vo. Penzance 1850.
Seventeenth Annual Report of the Royal Cornwall Polytechnic Society.

Dijon:—Mémoires de l'Académie des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres. 4 vols. Années 1843 à 1849. 8vo.

Dublin:—
Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy. Vol. IV.
Instructions for making Meteorological and Tidal Observations; and Second Report of the Council of the Royal Irish Academy. 8vo. Dublin 1850.
Journal of the Geological Society. Vol. IV. p. 2, No. 2.

Edinburgh:—
Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Vol.XIX.p.2. Vol.XX.p.1. Proceedings. Nos. 35 to 39. Vol. II.

Geneva:—Mémoires de la Société de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle de Genève. Tome XII. p. 2.

Glasgow:—Proceedings of the Philosophical Society, 1849–50.

Göttingen:—
Abhandlungen der Königlichen Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften zu Göttingen. Vierter Band. 4to. Göttingen 1850.
Nachrichten von der Georg-Augusts Universität und der Königl. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften zu Göttingen. Nr. 1–17, 1850.

Haarlem:—
Natuurkundige Verhandelingen van de Hollandsche Maatschappij der Wetenschappen te Haarlem. Tweede Verzameling. 5e Deel. 2e Stuk. 1849. 4to. 6e en 7e Deelen. Leiden 1850–51.

Donors.

The Academy.
The Hon. East India Company.
The Society.
The Society.
The Society.
The Society.
The Society.
The Society.
The Society.
The Society.
The Society.
The Society.
The Society.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Helsingfors:—

Acta Societatis Scientiarum Fennicae. Tomi tertii Fasc. 1. 4to. Helsingforsiae 1849.

Hobarton:—Papers and Proceedings of the Royal Society of Van Diemen's Land. Part 2. Vol. I. 8vo.

Leipsic:—

Abhandlungen der Königlich Sächsischen Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften zu Leipzig. 4to. Leipzig.

Berichte, &c. Nos. 1, 2, 3. 8vo. Leipzig.

London:—

Chemical Society. Quarterly Journal. Nos. 10 to 13. 8vo. The Society.

Entomological Society. Transactions. Vol. V. Parts 4 to 9. Vol. I. Parts 1 to 4. New Series. 8vo. 1848–50. The Society.

Geographical Society. Journal. Part 1 and 2. Vol. XX. 8vo. The Society.

Geological Society. Quarterly Journal. Nos. 23, 24. Vol. VI. Nos. 25, 26. Vol. VII. 8vo. The Society.

Horticultural Society. Journal. Vol. V. p. 3 and 4. Vol. VI. p. 1 and 2. 8vo. The Society.

Institution of Civil Engineers. Minutes of Proceedings. 8vo. Vols. I to VIII. 1837–50. The Institution.

Catalogue of the Library. 8vo. London 1851.

List of Members.

Linnean Society. Transactions. Vol. XX. p. 3. The Society.

List of Fellows. 1850.

Proceedings. Nos. 41 to 44.

Royal Agricultural Society. Journal. Vol. II. p. 2. The Society.

Royal Institution. Proceedings. Nos. 1 to 4. 8vo. 1851. The Institution.

List of the Members, &c., with Report of the Visitors of the Royal Institution for 1850.

Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society. Transactions. Second Series. Vol. XV.

General Index to the first Thirty-three Volumes of the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. 8vo. London 1851.

Pathological Society. Transactions. Vols. I. and II. 8vo. London 1848–50. The Society.

Society of Arts. Transactions. Parts 1 and 2. New Series. 1847–49. The Society.

Proceedings. Nov. 1850 to April 1851.

Statistical Society. Journal. Vol. XIII. p. 3 and 4. Vol. XIV. p. 1 and 2. 1850–51. The Society.

List of Fellows, &c.

Zoological Society. Transactions. Vol. IV. p. 1. The Society.

Reports of the Council and Auditors. 1850.

Proceedings. Nos. 190 to 200.

Modena:—Memorie di Matematica e di Fisica della Società Italiana delle Scienze. Tomo XXIV. Parts 1 and 2. 4to. Modena 1848–50.

Moscow:—Bulletin de la Société Impériale des Naturalistes de Moscou. Année 1847. Liv. 3, 4, 1846, 1 to 4. 1849, 1 to 3. 1850. 8vo. Moscou.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

Munich:
Abhandlungen der Königlichen Bayerischen Akademie der Wissenschaften. The Academy.
Historischen Classe. Band VI. Abt. 1.
Philosophisch-Philologischen Classe. Band VI. Abt. 1. 4to. München 1850.
Gelehrte Anzeigen. Vols. XXX. XXXI.
Bulletin. Nos. 1 to 23. January to July 1850.
Naples.—Rendiconto della Reale Accademia delle Scienze. Nos. 46 to 50. The Academy.
4to. Naples 1849–50.

Paris:
Annuaire de l'Institut des Provinces et des Congrès Scientifiques. 1851. M. de Caumont.
8vo. Paris.
Annuaire de l'Institut pour l'Année 1851.
Archives du Muséum d'Histoire Naturelle. Tom. IV. Liv. 4. 4to. Paris
Bulletin de la Société de Géographie. Tom. XIII. et XIV. 8vo. Paris 1850.
Bulletin de la Société Géologique. Tom. V. p. 33. Tom. VI. Liv. 44 to 47.
Tom. VII. Liv. 14 to 30–39–51. Tom. VIII. 1 to 9. 8vo. Paris 1849–50.
Journal de l'Ecole Polytechnique. Tom. XIX. 4to. Paris 1848.
Rapport sur l'Enseignement de l'Ecole Polytechnique. 4to. Paris 1850.
Mémoires présentés par divers Savants à l'Académie des Sciences. Sciences Mathématiques et Physiques. Tom. X. et XI. 4to. 1848–1851.
Mémoires de l'Académie des Sciences: Morales et Politiques. Tom. VI. et VII. 4to. 1850.
Mémoires de l'Académie des Sciences de l'Institut de France. Tom. XX. XXI. XXII. 4to. 1847–49–50.
Mémoires présentés par divers savans à l'Académie des Inscriptions et Belles Lettres, Tome II. 2me Série.
Mémoires de l'Institut Nationale de France. Acad. des Inscript. et Belles Lettres. Tom. XVI. Tom. XVII. p. 1 et 2. Tom. XVIII. p. 2. 1848–49.
Notices et Extraits des Manuscrits de la Bibliothèque du Roi, &c. Tom. XVI. 4to. 1847.
Comptes Rendus des Séances de l'Académie des Sciences. Tom. XXXI. Tom. XXXII. Liv. 1 to 21. 4to. Paris 1850.
Notice sur les Travaux Zoologiques de M. Charles Lucien Bonaparte. 4to. La Société Zoologique.
Paris 1850.
Notice sur les Ouvrages Zoologiques, &c. 8vo. 1850.

Philadelphia:
Journal of the Franklin Institute. Vol. XVIII. and XIX. 8vo. Philad. The Institute.
1850.
Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences. Parts 3 to 5. Vol. V. 8vo. The Academy.
Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society. No. 45. Vol. V. 8vo. The Society.
St. Petersburgh:
Mémoires présentés à l'Académie Impériale des Sciences de St. Pétersbourg par divers Savants. Tom. VI. Part 4. 4to. St. Pétersbourg 1849.
Mémoires présentés à l'Académie Impériale des Sciences Mathématiques. Tom. V. Parts 3–6. 4to. St. Pétersbourg 1849.
PRESENTS.

ACADEMIES and SOCIETIES (continued).

St. Petersburgh:—

Bulletin de la Classe Historico-Philologique. Tomes VI. VII. 4to. St. Pétersbourg 1849–50.

Bulletin de la Classe Physico-Mathematique. Nos. 7 to 16. 4to.

Recueil des Actes des Séances Publiques de l'Académie Impériale des Sciences de St. Pétersbourg. 4to. St. Pétersbourg 1849.

Rotterdam:—Nieuwe Verhandelingen van het Bataafsch Genootschap der Prefondervindelijke Wisbegercete te Rotterdam. 9de Deel. 2de Stuk. 10de Deel. 4to. Rotterdam 1849–50.

Stockholm:—

Kongl. Vetenskaps-Akademiens Handlingar för år 1848. Andra Häftet. 8vo. Stockholm.

Årsberättelse om Framstegen i Kemi under år 1847 afgifven till Kongl. Vetenskaps-Akademiens, af L. F. Svanberg. 8vo. Stockholm 1850.

Öfversigt af Konigl. Vetenskaps-Akademiens Förhandlingar 1849. Sjette Årgången 1849. 8vo. Stockholm 1850.

Sak-och Namn-Register öfver alla af Berzelius 1821–1847. 8vo. Stockholm 1850.

Venice:—Memorie dell' I. R. Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Volume terzo. 4to. Venezia 1847.

Vienna:—

Naturwissenschaftliche Abhandlungen, gesammelt und durch Subscription herausgegeben. Vols. II. and III. 4to. Wien 1848–50.

Berichte über die Mittheilungen von Freunden der Naturwissenschaften in Wien. Vols. III.–VI. 8vo. Wien 1848–50.

Jahrbuch der Kaiserlich-Königlichen Geologischen Reichsanstalt. Erster Jahrgang. 4to. Wien 1850.

ADAMS (A.) and REEVE (L.) Zoology of the Voyage of H.M.S. Samarang. Mollusca. Part 3. 4to. London 1850.

AIRY (G. B.) Astronomical and Magnetical and Meteorological Observations made at Greenwich in the year 1848. 4to. London 1850.

Astronomical and Meteorological and Magnetical Observations made at the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, in the year 1849. 4to. London 1850.

ALEXANDER (W.) Plan and Description of the original Electro-Magnetic Telegraph. 8vo. London 1851.

ANONYMOUS:—

A Catalogue of the Fellows, Licentiates and Extra-Licentiates of the Royal College of Physicians, 1850.

Additions to the Manuscripts in the British Museum in 1841–45. 8vo. London 1850.

Annales des Mines. Liv. 5 et 6. Tom. XVI. Liv. 1, 2, 3. Tom. XVII. 4, 5, 6. Tom. XVIII. 8vo. Paris 1849–50.

Annales Hydrographiques. Tom. II. et III. 8vo. Paris 1849–50.

Annuaire des Marées des Côtes de France pour l'An 1851. 8vo. Paris 1850.

Annuaires pour les Années 1849 et 1850.

DONORS.

The Academy.

The Society.

The Academy.

The Institute.

The Natural History Society.

The Institute.

The Authors.

The Admiralty.

The Author.

The College.

The Trustees, British Museum.

L'Ecole des Mines.

Le Dépôt de la Marine.

Le Bureau des Longitudes.
PRESENTS.

ANONYMOUS (continued).
Bains et Lavoirs Publics. 4to. Paris 1850.

Biographical and Bibliographical Memoir of Rev. W. Kirby, from the Proceedings of the Entomological Society.
Buildings and Monuments, Modern and Mediæval. Edited by G. Godwin. Fol. London 1850.
Connaissance des Temps pour l'An 1852. 8vo. Paris 1850.
Des Habitations des Classes Ouvrières. 4to. Paris 1850.

Documents connected with the History of Ludlow. 8vo. London 1841.
Flora Batava. Nos. 163 to 165. 4to.

Gleanings from the Menagerie and Aviary at Knowsley Hall. Fol. Knowsley Inscriptions in the Cuneiform Character from Assyrian Monuments discovered by A. C. Layard, D.C.L. Fol.
Journal of a Tour through the Islands of Scotland during the summer of 1829. 8vo. Norton Hall 1830.
Instruction pour aborder et franchir la Barre de Bayonne. 8vo. Paris 1850.
La Tribune Chronométrique; edited by P. Dubois. 8vo. Paris 1851.
Les Alpes. Journal des Sciences Naturelles, &c.
Letters on Church Matters, by D. C. L. 8vo. London 1851.
List of the Fellows and Members of the Royal College of Surgeons.
Logic for the Million: a familiar Exposition of the Art of Reasoning, by a Fellow of the Royal Society. 8vo. London 1851.
London University Calendar, 1851.
Memoirs of the Geological Survey of the United Kingdom. Decads 2 and 3.
Observations made at the Magnetical and Meteorological Observatory at Bombay, in the years 1846 and 1847. 2 vols. 4to. Bombay 1849–50.
Pharmacopœia Collegii Regalis Medicorum Londinensis. 8vo. Londini 1851.

Quarterly Return of Marriages, Births and Deaths. Nos. 6 to 9. 1851.
Renseignements sur la Côte Occidentale d'Afrique. 8vo. Paris 1850.
Sailing Directions for the Lower Shannon, &c.
Sailing Directions for South America. Second Edition. Part 2. 8vo. London 1850.
Specimen of "The Antiquities of Russia," to be published under the patronage of His Majesty the Emperor of Russia.
Summary of the London Returns of Mortality for the twelve years, 1838 to 1849.
Supplement to the Catalogue of the Library of the Athenæum. 8vo. London 1851.
Table for finding the Latitude from the Altitude of the Polar Star.
Tables showing the Number of Criminal Offenders, &c. in the year 1849.
The Architect, Nos. 63, 65, 67, 69, 70 to 74, 76, 78 to 83.
The Architectural Quarterly Review. Vol. I. No. 1.
The Light Houses, Beacons, and Floating Lights of the United States, West

DONORS.

The Minister of Agriculture and Commerce of France.
W. Spence, Esq.
The Editor.
Le Bureau des Longitudes.
The Minister of Agriculture and Commerce of France.
Donor unknown.
H. M. the King of the Netherlands.
The Earl of Derby.
The Trustees of the British Museum.
The Author.
Le Dépôt de la Marine.
The Editor.
The Editors.
The Author.
The College.
The Author.
The University.
The Board of Ordnance.
The Directors of the East India Company.
The Royal College of Physicians.
The Registrar General.
Le Dépôt de la Marine.
The Admiralty.
Prince Demidoff.
The Registrar General.
The Athenæum.
The Admiralty.
The Secretary of State.
The Editor.
The Editor.
The Admiralty.
PRESENTS.

ANONYMOUS (continued).
and South Coasts of Africa; Belgian, Netherlands, Hanoverian, Danish,
Prussian, Russian, Swedish and Norwegian Lights.

The Light Houses of South Africa, East Indies, Australia and Tasmania,
all corrected to January 1850. 8vo. London.

The Seaman's Guide round Java. 8vo. 1850.

Tide Tables for the English and Irish Ports for the year 1851.

Wirtembergisches Urkundenbuch, herausgegeben von dem Königlichen
Staatsarchiv in Stuttgart. Erster Band. 4to. Stuttgart 1849.

ARAGO (F. J. D.) Biographie de Lazare-Nicolas-Marguerite Carnot. 4to.
Paris 1850.

ATKINS (Mrs.) Photographs of British Algae. Vol. I.

BABBAGE (C.) The Exposition of 1851; or views of the Industry, the Sci-
ence, and the Government of England. 8vo. London 1851.

BACHE (A. D.) Reports, showing the progress of the Coast Survey, 1848, 1849
and 1850. 8vo.

Report on an Application of the Galvanic Circuit to an Astro-
nomical Clock and Telegraph Register. 8vo. Washington 1849.

BEARDMORE (N.) Hydraulic Tables, to aid the Calculation of Water and
Mill Power, &c. 8vo. London 1850.

BEECHEY (Capt. W. F.) Remarks upon the Tidal Phenomena of the River
Severn. Fol.

BEKE (C. T.) An Enquiry into M. Antoine D'Abbadie's Journey to Kaffa, &c.
8vo. London 1850.

Reasons for Returning the Gold Medal of the Geographical
Society of France, &c. 8vo. London 1851.

BIANCONI (J. J.) De Mari olim occupante planities et colles Italiae, Graeciae,
Asiae Minoris, &c. 4to. Bononia 1846.

Intorno la Galvanoplastica. 4to. Bologna 1849.

Di alcuni movimento che si osservano nelle piante per la
diffusione de' semi. 8vo. Bologna 1841.

Storia Naturale ... dei Fenomeni geologici operati dal Gas
Idrogene. 8vo. Bologna 1840.

BIENAYMÉ (J.) Effets de l'Intérêt Composé. 8vo. 1839.

De la loi de Multiplication et de la Durée des Familles. 8vo.
1845.

Sur la Constance des Causes, conclue des Effets observés.
8vo. 1840.

Théorème sur la Probabilité des Résultats moyens des Ob-
servations. 8vo. 1839.

BIOT (J. B.) Sur la Manifestation du Pouvoir Rotatoire Moléculaire dans les
Corps Solides. Trois Mémoires. 8vo.

Rapport présenté par l'Astronome Royal le 1er Juin 1850. 4to.

Résumé de Chronologie Astronomique. 4to. Paris 1849.

BIRD (Golding,) Urinary Deposits, their Diagnosis, Pathology, and Thera-
peutical Indications. 8vo. London 1851.

BISHOP (J.) On Articulate Sounds; and on the Causes and Cure of Impedi-
ments of Speech. 8vo. London 1851.

DONORS.

The Admiralty.

The Wurtemburg Govern-
ment.

The Author.

U.S. Government.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.
PRESENTS.

BLANCHARD (Emile.) De l'Appareil Circulatoire et des organes de la respiration dans les Arachnides. 8vo.

BOILEAU (M. P.) Jaugeage des Cours d'Eau. 8vo. Paris 1850.

BOOTH (Rev. J.) The Theory of Elliptic Integrals, &c. &c. 8vo. London 1851.

BROWN (J. A.) Report of the Observations made in the Observatory at Makerstoun. 8vo. Edinburgh 1850.

BULLOCK (Capt. F.) Model of the Mouth of the Thames. 8vo.

BUSCH (A. L. von) Astronomische Beobachtungen auf der Königlichen Universitäts-Sternwarte in Königsberg. fol. Königsberg 1849.

BUTLER (The Very Rev. G.) Harrow. A Selection of Lists of the School between 1770 and 1826. 8vo. Peterborough 1849.

CARPENTER (W. B.) Principles of Physiology, General and Comparative. Third Edition. 8vo. London 1851.

CHALLIS (Rev. J.) Cambridge Observations. Vol. XVI. 4to. Cambridge 1850.

CHEVREUL (M.) Discours prononcé ... la Société Nationale et Centrale d'Agriculture. 8vo.

CHRISTOPHE (C. A.) L'Évangile Médical, ou Traité des Causes Premières de l'Homme. 8vo. Paris 1843-45.

CHRISTOPHERS (J.) Shipwreck and Collisions at Sea greatly prevented. 8vo. London 1850.

CLARE (Peter.) An Account of some Thunder Storms and Extraordinary Electrical Phenomena that occurred in the neighbourhood of Manchester on Tuesday the 16th July, 1850.

D'ARCHIAC (A.) Histoire des Progrès de la Géologie de 1834 à 1849. 8vo. Paris 1850.

DAUBENY (C. G. B.) An Introduction to the Atomic Theory. Second Edition. 8vo. Oxford 1850.

DAVIS (Hewitt.) The Effects of the Importation of Wheat upon the Profits of Farming. Second Edition. 8vo. London 1839.

DAVY (Edmund.) An Essay on the Use of Peat or Turf as a means of promoting the Public Health, &c. 8vo. Dublin 1850.

DE BOIS-GALLAIS (F. L.) Encore une Lettre inédite de Montaigne. 8vo. Londres 1850.

DE LA BECHE (Sir H. T.) The Geological Observer. 8vo. London 1851.

DE MORGAN (A.) On the Symbols of Logic, the Theory of the Syllogism, and in particular of the Copula, &c.

DONORS.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Observatory.

The Editor.

The Author.

The Syndicate of the Cambridge Observatory.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

M. Libri.

The Author.
PRESENTS.

DE MORGAN (A.) The Book of Almanacs, &c. &c. 4to. London 1851.
DRACH (S. M.) Deductions from Mr. Glaisher's "Meteorological Corrections." Svo.
DUCPETIAUX (Ed.) Mémoire sur le Paupérisme dans les Flandres. 8vo. Bruxelles 1850.
DUPORTIER ET VAN BENEDEN. Histoire Naturelle des Polypes composés d'Eau douce. Part 2.
EDLESTON (Rev. J. A.) Correspondence of Sir Isaac Newton and Professor Cotes, including that of other eminent Men, first published from the Originals in the Library of Trinity College, Cambridge. 8vo. London 1850.
ELLIOTSON (Dr.) False Accusation in the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society against a poor man because he suffered no pain while his leg was amputated in the Mesmeric Coma; and cruel refusal of the Society to receive his Solemn Denial of the Truth of the False Accusation. Svo. London 1851.
ENCKE (J. F.) Berliner Astronomisches Jahrbuch für 1853. 8vo. Berlin 1850.
ENGLISH (H.) The Mining Almanack for 1850. Svo. London 1850.
FARREN (E. J.) Life Contingency Tables. 4to. London 1850.
FISCHER DE WALDHEIM (G.) Notice sur le Crioceras de Voronzovii de Sperk, 4to. Moscou 1849.
FLINDERS (M.) Observations on the Coasts of Van Diemen's Land. 4to. London 1801.
FORBES (J., M.D.) Of Happiness in its Relations to Work and Knowledge. An Introductory Lecture, &c. 12mo. London 1850.
FRÈRE (Edouard.) Notice Historique sur la Vie et les Travaux de Marc-Isambart Brunel. 8vo. Rouen 1850.
FROST (J.) Table of the Temperature, Volume, Elastic Force and Actual Volume of an Inch of Steam, &c. 8vo. New York.
GOMPERTZ (B.) Hints on Porisms. 4to. London 1850.
GRIFFITH (W.) Posthumous Papers: Itinerary Notes of Plants collected in Afghanistan, &c. 2 vols. 8vo. Calcutta 1848.
Atlas to Ditto. Coloured Plates. 4to.
HALL (Marshall.) On the Threatenings of Apoplexy and Paralysis, &c. 8vo. London 1851.
Memoirs on the Nervous System. 4to. London 1837.
Synopsis of the Diastaltic Nervous System. 4to. London.
On the Neck as a Medical Region, and on Trachelismus, &c. 8vo. London 1849.
HAMILTON (Sir W. R.) On the Law of the Circular Hodograph. 8vo. Dublin 1849.
HANEBERG (Dr. Daniel von.) Abhandlung über das Schul- und Lehrwesen der Muhamadaner im Mittelalter. 4to. München 1850.
HARDY (P.) On Methods of Approximation. 8vo. London 1850.
On the Values of Annuities. 8vo. 1850.
HARE (R.) Memoir on the Explosiveness of Nitre, &c. 4to. Washington 1849.
HARPUR (A.) An Inquiry as to the Essential Nature of Phenomena, or Perceptible Existence. Nos. 1 and 2. 8vo. Dublin 1851.

DONORS.

The Author.
The Author.
The Author.
The Authors.
The Editor.
The Author.
The Observatory at Berlin.
The Author.
The Author.
The Author.
C. R. Weld, Esq.
The Author.
The Honourable East India Company.
The Author.
The Academy of Sciences, Munich.
The Author.
The Author.
PRESENTS.

HÖFLER (Dr. Const. von.) Ueber die politische Reformbewegung in Deutschland im XV. Jahrhunderte und den Antheil Bayerns an derselben. 4to. München 1850.

HOGG (John.) On the City of Abila. 8vo.

On the Geography and Geology of the Peninsula of Mount Sinai. 8vo. Edinburgh 1850.

HUTTON (T.) The Chronology of Creation, or, Geology and Scripture reconciled. 8vo. Calcutta 1850.

JAL (A.) Glossaire Nautique. 4to. Paris 1848.

JERWOOD (James.) A Dissertation on the Rights to the Sea-shores. 8vo. London 1850.

JOHNSON (M. J.) Astronomical Observations made at the Radcliffe Observatory, Oxford, in the year 1849. Vol. 10. 8vo. Oxford 1851.

JONES (Thos. W.) On the State of the Blood and the Blood-vessels in Inflammation. 8vo. London 1850.

JOURNALS:

Astronomische Nachrichten. Nos. 678 to 761. and Ergänzungs-Heft.

Journal of the Indian Archipelago. Nos. 5 to 8, 10 to 12, Vol. IV.; Nos. 1 and 2, Vol. V.

The American Journal of Science and Arts. Nos. 27 to 32. Vols. IX. and X.

The Athenæum. June to December, 1850; January to May, 1851.

The Builder. Parts 6 to 12, Vol. VIII. 1 to 5, Vol. IX.

The Literary Gazette. Parts 1 and 2.

The Philosophical Magazine, July to December 1850. Nos. 1 to 5. 1851.

KLENCHE (H.) Alexander von Humboldt, Ein Biographisches Denkmal. 8vo. Leipzig 1851.

LAMING (R.) Matter and Force, an Analytical and Synthetical Essay on Physical Causation. 8vo. London 1851.

LAMPORECCHI (R.) Mémoire sur la Persecution qu'on fait souffrir en France à M. Libri. 8vo. Londres 1850.

LE DOCTE (Henri.) Mémoire sur la Chimie et la Physiologie Végétales, et sur l'Agriculture. 8vo. Bruxelles 1849.

Exposé Général de l'Agriculture Luxembourgeoise. 8vo. Bruxelles 1849.

LLOYD (Rev. H.) On the Cyclone of November 19.

On the Induction of Soft Iron as applied to the determination of the changes of the Earth's Magnetic Force. 8vo.

LIBRI (M.) Lettre à M. le Président de l'Institut de France.

Lettre à M. Barthélemy Saint-Hilaire. 8vo. Londres 1850.

LITTRROW (C. L.) Annalen der K. K. Sternwarte in Wien, Neuer folge, Zwölfter Band. 4to. Wien 1849. Band 4 für 1852.

Annalen der K. K. Sternwarte in Wien. Parts 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 13, 14. fol. Wien 1821–34.

LUBBOCK (Sir J. W., Bart.) On the Gnomonic Projection of the Sphere. 8vo. London 1851.

On the Theory of the Moon. Part 9. 8vo. London 1850.

MCLELLAND (J.) Report of the Geological Survey of India, for the Season of 1848–9. 4to. Calcutta 1850.

DONORS.

The Academy of Sciences, Munich.

The Author.

The Author.

Le Dépôt de la Marine.

The Author.

The Radcliffe Trustees.

The Author.

The Observatory, Altona.

The Editor.

Messrs. Silliman.

The Editor.

The Editor.

Richard Taylor, Esq.

G. Rennie, Esq., F.R.S. &c.

The Author.

M. Libri.

The Author.

The Observatory.

The Hon. East India Company.
PRESENTS.

M'WILLIAM (J. O.) Some Account of the Yellow Fever Epidemy by which Brazil was invaded in the latter part of the year 1849. 8vo. London 1851.

MANBY (G. W.) Anastatic Drawings of Gold and Silver Medals, &c., with a few preliminary observations. 8vo. Yarmouth 1851.

MANTELL (G. A.) Notice of the Remains of the Dinornis and other Birds, &c. 8vo. London 1850.

On the Remains of Man, and Works of Art imbedded in Rocks and Strata. 8vo. 1850.

Geological Excursions round the Isle of Wight. Second Edition. 8vo. London 1851.

MAPS, CHARTS, &c.:—

Charts published at the Hydrographic Office, between March 1850 and May 1851.

Eighteen Maps and Charts published by the Dépôt de la Marine.

MARIANINI (S.) Storia di una Sensazione particolare che provava una Paralitica quando veniva Eletrizzata, &c. 4to. Modena 1845.

Di alcune Paralisi curate coll' Elettricità Voltaica. Memoria Seconda. 4to. Modena 1846.

Sopra l'Azione Magnettizzante delle Correnti Elettriche Momentanee. Mem. 7, 8, 9. 4to. Modena 1846-47.

MAURY (Lieut. M. F.) On the probable Relation between Magnetism and the Circulation of the Atmosphere. 4to. Washington 1850.

Notice to Mariners. 4to. Washington 1850.

MERRYWEATHER (G.) An Essay explanatory of the Tempest Prognosticator. 8vo. London 1851.

MONGE (G.) Application de l'Analyse à la Géométrie. 5me Edit. revue, corrigée, et annotée par M. Liouville. 4to. Paris 1850.

MOOYER (E. F.) Die Einfälle der Normannen in die Pyrenäische Halbinsel. 8vo. Munster und Minden 1844.

Ueber die angebliche Abstammung des Normannischen Königsgeschlecht Siziliens von den Herzögen der Normandie. 4to. Minden 1850.

MISCELLANEOUS: Works of Art, &c.:—

Engraving of the "Monumental Tower in honour of Sir John Barrow, Bart., on the Hoad Hill, Ulverstone."

Three Engravings: the Geysers of Iceland.

Medal, in Silver, of the late Professor Berzelius.

NEWPORT (G.) On the Reciprocal Relation of the Vital and Physical Forces. 8vo. London 1850.

OLDHAM (Thos.) Address to the Anniversary Meeting of the Geological Society of Dublin. 8vo. Dublin 1850.

PARLATORE (Filippo.) Flora Italiana. Vol. I. 8vo. Firenze 1848.

PAYEN (M.) Mémoire sur la Structure et la Composition chimique de la Canne à sucre. 4to. Paris 1849.

et M. MIRBEL. Organographie et Physiologie Végétales. 4to. Paris 1849.

PEREIRA (J.) Lectures on Polarized Light, &c. 8vo. London 1843.

DONORS.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Admiralty.

Le Dépôt de la Marine.

The Author.

The Author.

A. Trimen, Esq.

Albert Way, Esq.

Royal Academy of Sciences at Stockholm.

The Author.

The Author.

The Authors.

The Author.
PRESENTS.

PERREY (Alexis.) Trois Mémoires sur les Tremblements de Terre dans le Bassin du Rhin, la péninsule Italique, et dans la péninsule Turco-Hellénique et en Syrie. 4to. 1846–8.

PLANTAMOUR (E.) Résumé Météorologique de l'Année 1849, pour Genève et le Grand St. Bernard.

PLATEAU (J.) Sur de Nouvelles Applications curieuses de la persistance des Impressions de la Rétine. 8vo. Bruxelles.

POLLOCK (J.) On the Action upon the Galvanometer by Arrangements of Coloured Liquids in a U-tube. 8vo. London 1850.

PORTRAITS:—

Portrait in Oil of the late Sir John Barrow, Bart., F.R.S.

Engraved Portrait of Sir Isaac Newton, from the Pepysian Collection, Cambridge.

Lithographed Portrait of Rev. W. Kirby.

PRICE (B.) A Treatise on the Differential Calculus, and its Application to Geometry. 8vo. London 1848.

An Essay on the Relation of the several Parts of a Mathematical Science to the Fundamental Idea therein contained. 8vo. Oxford 1849.

QUETELET (A.) Notice sur Henri-Chrétien Schumacher. 8vo. Bruxelles 1851.

Sur le Climat de la Belgique. 4me Partie. 4to. Bruxelles 1851.

Annuaire de l'Observatoire Royal de Bruxelles 17me et 18me Année 1850–1.

Rapport sur l'État de l'Observatoire Royal de Bruxelles pendant 1849.

REEVE (Lovell.) Conchologia Iconica. Monographs of the Genus Achatinella—Artemis—Fissurella—Lucina—Partula. 4to. London.

RENNIE (Sir John.) The Theory, Formation and Construction of British and Foreign Harbours. Part I. to VII. fol. London 1850.

RENNIE (G.) Report on the Supply of Water to be obtained from the district of Bagshot. 4to. London 1850.

RITTER (Carl.) Die Erdkunde von Asien. Band 8. Palästina und Syrien. 8vo. Berlin 1850.

Ueber räumliche Anordnungen auf der Aussenseite des Erdballs. 4to. Berlin 1850.

RIPAULT (M.H.) Détermination de la Figure connue sous le nom d'Ascia, que l'on voit sculptée sur les Tombeaux anciens. 8vo. Dijon 1851.

ROWLANDSON (T.) Report made to the Governor and Company of the New River. 8vo. London 1851.

RUDHART (Dr.) Einige Worte über Wallensteins Schuld. 4to. München 1850.

RUSH (G.) An Account of Ascents in the Nassau and Victoria Balloons, in the years 1838, 1849 and 1850. 8vo. London 1851.

SABINE (Lieut.-Col. E.) Observations on Days of unusual Magnetic Disturbance, made at the British Colonial Magnetic Observatories. 4to. London 1851.

Observations made at the Magnetical and Meteorological Observatory at Hobarton. Vol. I. 4to. London 1850.

DONORS.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

J. Barrow, Esq., F.R.S.

Rev. J. A. Edleston.

W. Spence, Esq., F.R.S.

The Author.

The Author.

The Observatory.

The Author.

The Author.

The Academy of Sciences, Munich.

The Author.

H.M. Government.
PRESENTS.

SCHMIDT (Carl von.) Charakteristik der Epidemischen Cholera. 8vo. Leipzig und Milan 1850.

SCORESBY (Rev. W.) My Father; being Records of the Adventurous Life of the late William Scoresby, Esq., of Whitby. 8vo. London 1851.

SEDGWICK (Rev. A.) A Discourse on the Studies of the University of Cambridge. 8vo. London and Cambridge 1850.

SMEE (A.) The Process of Thought adapted to Words and Language. 8vo. London 1851.

SMYTH (C. P.) On a Method of Cooling the Air of Rooms in Tropical Climates. 4to. London 1850.

Astronomical Observations made at the Royal Observatory, Edinburgh. Vol. IX. 8vo. Edinburgh 1850.

SMYTH (Capt. W. H.) Address at the Anniversary Meeting of the Royal Geographical Society, 1850.

Supplement to the Description of an Astrological Clock, belonging to the Society of Antiquaries. 4to. London 1851.

SILLIMAN (B.) Optical Examination of several American Micas. 8vo. Newhaven 1850.

SORBY (H. C.) On the Tetramorphism of Carbon. 8vo. Edinburgh 1851.

On the Microscopical Structure of the Calcareous Grit of the Yorkshire Coast. 8vo. Dublin 1850.

STRATFORD (Lieut.) The Nautical Almanae for 1854.

STURGEON (W.) Scientific Researches in Electricity, Magnetism, &c. &c. 4to. Bury 1850.

THIERSCH (Fr. v.) Rede zur Vorfeuer des hohen Geburtsfestes Sr. Majestät des Königs Maximilian II. von Bayern. 4to.

Ueber die praktische Seite Wissenschaftlicher Thätigkeit. 4to. München 1849.

THOMSON (William.) Remarks on the Dentition of British Pulmonifera. 8vo. 1851.

TORTOLINI (Barnaba.) Elementi di Calcolo Infinitesimale. Tomo I. 8vo. Roma 1844.

Rappresentazione Geometrica delle Funzioni Ellittiche di terza specie. 8vo. Roma 1844.

Annali di Scienze Matematiche e Fisiche. January to December 1850; January to March 1851.

De Formatione quarundam Æquationum Algebraicarum. 4to. Bononiae 1848.

Applicazioni dei Trascendenti Ellittici, &c. 4to. Modena 1849.

TURNER (H. N.) On the Evidences of Affinity afforded by the Skull in the Ungulate Mammalia. 8vo. 1850.

TWINING (Elizabeth.) Illustrations of the Natural Orders of Plants. Parts 7 to 10. fol. London 1849.

VASSALLO (C.) Dei Monumenti Antichi nel Gruppo di Malta. 8vo. Valletta 1850.

WACKENRODER (H.) De Cerevisiæ vera mixtione et Indole Chemica, etc. 8vo. Jena 1850.

DONORS.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Observatory.

The Author.

The Author.

The Editor.

The Author.

The Academy of Sciences, Munich.

The Author.

The Author.

R. Twining, Esq., F.R.S.

The Author.

The Author.
PRESENTS.

WARREN (J. C.) Address before the American Medical Association in Cincinnati. 8vo. Boston 1850.

WEISS (Dr. A.) Handbuch der Trigonometrie. 8vo. Fürth 1851.

Die Galvanischen Grundversuche, Mathematisch erklärt und die Theorie des Condensators. 4to. Ansbach 1851.

WHITE (Walter,) Antarctic Explorations. 8vo. Edinburgh 1850.

WHITLEY (N.) On the Climate of the British Islands in its Effects on Cultivation. 8vo. London 1850.

WILD (J. J.) A Letter to the Right Hon. Lord Brougham, containing proposals for a Scientific Exploration of Egypt and Ethiopia.

WILLIAMS (D. H.) A Geological Report on the Damoodah Valley. With five Plates of Maps and Sections.

WILlich (C. M.) Tithe Commutation Tables. 8vo. London 1851.

WILLIS (Rev. R.) A System of Apparatus for the use of Lecturers and Experimenters in Natural Philosophy. 4to. London 1851.

Donors.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Author.

The Directors of East India Company.

The Author.

The Author.