# Back Matter

**Author(s):** Anonymous  
**Year:** 1807  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London  
**Volume:** 97  
**Pages:** 11 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-107246  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/107246>  

---

PRESENTS
RECEIVED BY THE
ROYAL SOCIETY,
From November 1806 to June 1807,
WITH THE
NAMES OF THE DONORS.

1806.

Nov. 6. Explanations of Time-keepers, constructed by Mr. T. Earnshaw, and the late Mr. J. Arnold. London, 1806. 4°

Archæologia, Vol. XV. London, 1806. 4°

Plates XVIII. XIX. and XX. of Vol. IV. of Vetus Monuments.

Transactions of the Society for the encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce, Vol. XXIII. London, 1805. 8°

Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, Vol. VI. Part I. Edinburgh, 1806. 4°

Asiatic Researches, Vol. VIII. Calcutta, 1805. 4°

Kongl. Vetenskaps Academiens Nya Handlingar, Tom. 26. för år 1805. 3d and 4th quarter, and Tom. 27. för år 1806, 1st quarter. Stockholm. 8°

Fasciculus 9 and 10 of a Synopsis of the British Confervae, by L. W. Dillwyn.

The History of a new Method of inoculating discovered in England; by Alex. Pearson; translated into Chinese by Sir George Staunton. Canton, 10th year of the reign of Kia King. 8°

The same in English. Mscr. 4°

Werneria. Part II. London. 1806. 12°

Bibliotheque Britannique. No. 245—254.

Analyse et Tableaux de l’Influence de la Petite Verole sur la Mortalité à chaque Age, par E. E. Duviard. Paris, 1806. 4°

Traité Elementaire de Physique, par M. l’Abbé Haüy, seconde edition. Paris, 1806. Tomes 2. 8°

Donors.

The Commissioners of Longitude.

The Society of Antiquaries.

The Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce.

The Royal Society of Edinburgh.

The Asiatick Society of Bengal.

The Royal Academy of Sciences of Stockholm.

Lewis Weston Dillwyn, Esq. F. R. S.

Sir G. Thomas Staunton, Bart., F. R. S.

Rev. Stephen Weston, B.D. F. R. S.

Professor Pictet, F. R. S.

M. Duviard.

Abbé Haüy, de l’Institut de France.
PRESENTS.

The Philosophical Transactions abridged. Vol. IX. Parts III. IV. and Vol. X. Parts I. II. III. The Literary Journal. June—October, 1806.
Practical Observations on the principal Diseases of the Eyes, translated from the Italian of Ant. Scarpa, by J. Briggs. London, 1806. 8°
An Epitome of Chemistry, by W. Henry, 4th edition. Edinburgh, 1806. 8°
A Journal of Natural Philosophy, by W. Nicholson. No LVII. to LXII.
The Philosophical Magazine, by A. Tilloch. No XCVII.—CI.
The Critical Review. June—October, 1806.
27. Facts, Observations, and Conjectures relative to the Generation of the Opossum of North America. Philadelphia, 1806. 8°
Essai sur le Monde, par H. Azaïs. Paris, 1806. 8°
An Abstract of the whole Doctrine of the Christian Religion, by J. A. Freylinghausen. The First Book stereotyped by the new Process. London, 1804. 8°
The Book of Common Prayer. Cambridge. Stereotype Edition. 8°
Entick's spelling Dictionary, revised by J. Robinson. Stereotype Edition. London, 1806. 8°
A Letter to the Earl of Moira, on the Accusations brought against H. R. H. the Prince of Wales, by Mr. Paull. London, 1806. 8°

Dec. 11. Royal Humane Society, Annual Report. 1806. London.
Fasciculus XI. of a Synopsis of the British Conferae, by L. W. Dillwyn.
The Philosophical Transactions abridged. Vol. X. Part IV.
The Literary Journal. November, 1806.
A Journal of Natural Philosophy, by W. Nicholson. No. LXIII.
The Philosophical Magazine, by A. Tilloch. No. CII.
Four Stereotype Plates, with Impressions from them.
The Critical Review. November, 1806.

1807.
Jan. 8. The Literary Journal. December, 1806.
A Journal of Natural Philosophy, by W. Nicholson. No. LIV and LXV.
The Philosophical Magazine, by A. Tilloch. No. CIII.
The Critical Review. December, 1806.

DONORS.

Messrs. C. and R. Baldwin.
Mr. James Briggs.
Mr. William Henry.
Mr. William Nicholson.
Mr. Alexander Tilloch.
The Proprietor.
Professor Barton of Philadelphia.
M. Azaïs.
Mr. Andrew Wilson.

The Author.
The Royal Humane Society.
Lewis Weston Dillwyn, Esq. F. R. S.
Messrs. C. and R. Baldwin.
Mr. William Nicholson.
Mr. Alexander Tilloch.
Mr. Andrew Wilson.
The Proprietor.
Messrs. C. and R. Baldwin.
Mr. William Nicholson.
Mr. Alexander Tilloch.
The Proprietor.
PRESENTS.

15. A Chart of the Red Sea, by Lieut. Charles Court. Two Sheets.
A Portrait of the late Brook Taylor, M. D. Sec. R. S. painted by Ramsay.
Original Letters of Dr. Brook Taylor on Mathematical Subjects.
The Philosophical Transactions abridged. Vol. XI. Part. I.
A Meteorological Journal of the Year 1806, kept in London, by W. Bent. London, 1807. 8°

22. Mémoires de l'Academie Royale des Sciences et Belles Lettres, 1803. Berlin, 1805. 4°
Astronomisches Jahrbuch für das Jahr 1809, von J. E. Bode. Berlin, 1806. 8°

29. A short Account of the Cause of the Disease in Corn called by the Farmers, the Blight, the Mildew, and the Rust, by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. K. B. with Annotations by an Agriculturist. London, 1807. 8°
Dell' Obliquità dell' Eclittica, Memoria di Gius. Piazzi. Modena, 1804. 4°
Ricerche di Gius. Piazzi sulla Parallasse annua di alcune delle principale Fisse. Modena, 1805. 4°
Del Reale Osservatorio di Palermo, libro sesto. Palermo (1806). fol.

Feb. 5. Charter of the London Institution. London, 1807. 8°
The Philosophical Transactions abridged. Vol. XI. Part. II.
A Journal of Natural Philosophy, by W. Nicholson. No LXVI.
The Philosophical Magazine, by A. Tilloch. No. CIV.
The Critical Review. January, 1807.

12. Nouveau Forceps non croisé, par J. S. Thenance. Lyon, an 10. 8°
Essai sur la Theorie des trois Elemens, comparée aux Elemens de la Chimie pneumatique, par M. Tissier. Lyon, 1804. 8°

19. The Nautical Almanac for the year 1811. London, 1806. 8°
Scriptores Logarithmicici, or a Collection of Tracts on the Nature and Construction of Logarithms, Vol. VI. London, 1807. 4°

26. Bibliotheque Britannique, No. CCLV. CCLVI.

March 5. The Philosophical Transactions abridged. Vol. XI. Part III.
A Journal of Natural Philosophy, by W. Nicholson. No. LXVII.
The Philosophical Magazine, by A. Tilloch. No. CV.
Professional Observations on the Architecture of the principal Buildings in France and Italy, by G. Tappen. London, 1806. 8°

DONORS.

Viscount Valentia. F. R. S.
Sir William Young, Bart. F. R. S.

Messrs. C. and R. Baldwin.
Mr. William Bent.

The Royal Academy of Sciences of Berlin.
Mr. J. E. Bode, F. R. S.

Sir Thomas Hanmer, Bart. F. R. S.

Professor Piazzi of Palermo. F. R. S.

Robert Wigram Esq. F. R. S.
Messrs. C. and R. Baldwin.
Mr. William Nicholson.
Mr. Alexander Tilloch.

The Proprietor.
M. Thenance.
M. Tissier.

The Commissioners of Longitude.
Francis Maseres, Esq. F. R. S.

Professor Pictet, F. R. S.
Messrs. C. and R. Baldwin.
Mr. William Nicholson.
Mr. Alexander Tilloch.
Mr. George Tappen.
PRESENTS.

The Critical Review. February, 1807.

12. Meteorological Observations made at Nottingham-house, Athapescow Lake, from May 25, 1805, to June 5, 1806, by Peter Fidler. Mscr. fol.

19. Flora Batava, No. XVII. to XXII. Amsterdam.

April 9. The Philosophical Transactions abridged. Vol. XI. Part IV.

A Memoir on the best Method of Measuring Time at Sea, by M. Le Roy, translated from the French by T. S. Evans.

A Journal of Natural Philosophy, by W. Nicholson. No. LXVIII.

The Philosophical Magazine, by A. Tilloch. No. CVI.

The Critical Review. March, 1807.

16. Fasciculus 12, of a Synopsis of the British Con- fervæ, by L. W. Dillwyn.

Ancient and modern Malta, by L. de Boisgelin. London, 1804. 3 Vols.

Traité de la Fievre jaune d'Amerique, par L. Valentin. Paris, 1803.

Analysis of the mineral Waters of Butterby, by W. R. Clanny. Durham, 1807.

30. Caledonia, by G. Chalmers. Vol. I. London, 1807.

The Anatomy and surgical Treatment of crural and umbilical Hernia, by A. Cooper. Part II. London, 1807.

Fragments of Oriental Literature, by S. Weston. London, 1807.

The Philosophical Transactions abridged. Vol. XII. Part I.

The Philosophical Magazine, by A. Tilloch. No. CVII.

May 7. The Critical Review. April, 1807.

14. Bibliothèque Britannique. No. CCLVII.—CCLX.

June 4. A Course of Lectures on natural Philosophy, and the mechanical Arts, by Th. Young. London, 1807. 2 Vols.

The Philosophical Magazine, by A. Tilloch. No. CVIII.

The Critical Review. May, 1807.

11. Observations on Fractures of the lower Limbs, by Sir James Earle. London, 1807.

The Philosophical Transactions abridged. Vol. XII. Part II.

18. Transactions of the Linnean Society of London. Vol. VIII. London, 1807.

Fasciculus 13, of a Synopsis of the British Con- fervæ, by L. W. Dillwyn.

DONORS.

The Proprietor.
Joseph Colen, Esq.

The Minister of the Interior of Holland.
Messrs. C. and R. Baldwin.

Mr. T. S. Evans.

Mr. William Nicholson.

Mr. Alexander Tilloch.

The Proprietor.
Lewis Weston Dillwyn, Esq. F. R. S.
Chev. Louis de Boisgelin.

Louis Valentin, M. D.

W. R. Clanny, M. D.

George Chalmers, Esq. F. R. S.

Mr. Astley Cooper, F.R.S.

Rev. Stephen Weston, B. D. F. R. S.

Messrs. C. and R. Baldwin.

Mr. Alexander Tilloch.

The Proprietor.
Professor Pictet, F. R. S.

Thomas Young, M. D.

F. R. S.

Mr. Alexander Tilloch.

The Proprietor.
Sir James Earle, Knt.

F. R. S.

Messrs. C. and R. Baldwin.

The Linnean Society.

Lewis Weston Dillwyn, Esq. F. R. S.
INDEX

TO THE

PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS

FOR THE YEAR 1807.

A

Acid, Muriatic, experiments shewing that it is not formed in galvanic processes, 5
———, Carbonic, on its composition, 290
Acids, on their passage through alkalies by means of electricity, 24
———, on their electrical energies, 34
Affinity, Chemical, on its suspension by electrical powers, 24
———, on its relations to the electrical energies of bodies, 39
Air, Atmospheric, its analysis, 253
Albuminum of trees, not essential to the production of bark, 112
Alkalies, on their electrical energies compared with those of acids and metals, 35
Allen, William, Esq. His experiments made in conjunction with W. H. Pepys, Esq. on the quantity of carbon in carbonic acid, and on the nature of the diamond, 267
Analysis, on a method of effecting it by electricity, 52
———, an, of the waters of the Dead Sea and the River Jordan, 296
Armadillo (with nine bands), observations on the stomach of the, 156
Ass, observations on the stomach of the, 151
### INDEX

**B**

*Bat, the Vampyre*, observations on the stomach of the, - 158  
*---, the Long-eared*, - 159  
*Bark of trees*, on its formation, - 103  
*Beaver*, observations on the stomach of the, - 147  
*Bees*, on their economy, - 234  
*Brinkley, Rev. John, D.D.* On an investigation of the general term of an important series in the inverse method of finite differences, - 114

**C**

*Carne, Mr. Joseph*. An account of the Relistian tin mine, - 293  
*Cataracts*, effects produced by their removal, - 84, 86, 88, 90  
*Charcoal*, on its power of absorbing water, - 271  
*---*, experiments on its combustion, - 276  
*Chyle*, observations on its formation, - 171  
*Coal, stone*, experiments on its combustion, - 287  
*---, animal*, - 288  
*Codfish*, observations on the stomach of the, - 145  
*Comet*, observations of one, - 265  
*Cormorant*, observations on the stomach of the, - 160

**D**

*Davy, Humphry, Esq.* The Bakerian Lecture on some chemical agencies of electricity, - 1  
*Diamond*, on its combustion, - 179, 281  
*Digestion*, general observations on, - 164  
*Dormouse*, observations on the stomach of the, - 148

**E**

*Electricity*, on the chemical agencies of, - 1  
*---*, on the transfer of the constituent parts of compound bodies by it, - 20  
*Elephant*, observations on the stomach of the, - 154  
*Equinoxes*, on the precession of - 57  
*Eucliometer*, new one, - 247
INDEX.

F

Fairy Rings, on their causes, - 134
Frog, observations on the stomach of the, - 161
Fungi, on their operation in producing fairy rings, - 136

G

Gas, carbonic acid, mode of ascertaining its purity, - 254
---, oxygene, - 254
---, sulphurated hydrogene, - 254
---, nitrous, - 255
Glass, its decomposition by electricity, - 17

H

Hare, observations on the stomach of the, - 146
Hawk, - 159
Heat, experiments on its production in the decomposition of bodies by electricity, - 48
Herschel, William, L.L.D. His experiments for investigating the cause of the coloured concentric rings, discovered by Sir Isaac Newton, between two object glasses laid upon one another, - 180
---, Observations on the nature of the new celestial body discovered by Dr. Olbers, and of the comet which was expected to appear last January, on its return from the Sun, - 260
Hippopotamus, observations on the stomach of the, - 166
Hog, observations on the stomach of the, - 153
Home, Everard, Esq. An account of two children born with cataracts in their eyes, to shew that their sight was obscured in very different degrees; with experiments to determine the proportional knowledge of objects acquired by them immediately after the cataracts were removed, - 83
---, observations on the structure of the different cavities which constitute the stomach of the whale, compared with those of ruminating animals, with a view to ascertain the situation of the digestive organ, - 93
---, observations on the structure of the stomachs of different animals, with a view to elucidate the process of converting animal and vegetable substances into chyle, - 139
Human Stomach, observations on the, - 156,169
INDEX.

I

Instincts, observations on the supposed hereditary ones of animals, 240
Iron, sulphate of, impregnated with nitrous gas, on its use as an eudiometrical substance, 249

J

Jordan, the river, examination of its waters, 312

K

Kangaroo, observations on the stomach of the, 151
———, on the digestive functions of the, 165
Knight, Thomas Andrew, Esq. On the formation of the bark of trees, 103
———, on the economy of bees, 234

L

Lecture, the Bakerian, 1
Lime, muriate of, experiments on its composition, 300
Lynx, observations on the stomach of the, 157

M

Magnesia, muriate of, experiments on its composition, 300
Malphigi, his hypothesis on the formation of the bark of trees controverted, 113
Mammalia, observations on their digestive functions, 99
Marget, Alexander, M.D. His analysis of the Dead Sea, and the River Jordan, 296
Metallic salts, their decomposition by electricity, 18
Metals, on their electrical energies, 33
———, on their cohesion, as probably influenced by the difference in their states of electricity, 51
Mole, observations on the stomach of the, 155
Morveau, Guyton de, his opinions on the nature of the diamond controverted, 291
INDEX.

N

Neutro-earthly compounds, experiments on their decomposition into earths and acids by electricity, 13
Neutro-saline compounds, experiments on their decomposition into acid and alkali by electricity, 18, 19

O

Objects, experiments on the effects of their figure after the removal of a cataract, 88
Oxalate of Ammonia, its application in analytical processes, 303

P

Pebbles, on those found in the Relistian mine cemented by tin ore, 293
Pecari, observations on the stomach of the, 154
PEPPYS, WILLIAM HASLEDINE, Esq. On a new eudiometer, accompanied with experiments elucidating its application, 247
Physeter, remark on its oil, 100
Planet, new one discovered by Dr. Olbers. Observations of, 260
Plumbago, experiments on its combustion, 285
Presents received by the Royal Society from November 1806 to June 1807, 315

R

Rat, water, observations on the stomach of the, 149
—, common, 150
Rings, on the coloured concentric ones occasioned when one object glass is laid upon another, 180
—, methods of producing them, 182
—, on measuring them, 197
—, considerations relating to the cause of their formation, 225
—, on their production without the assistance of any thick or thin plates either of glass or air, 230
ROBERTSON, REV. ABRAHAM, on the precession of the equinoxes, 57
Rumination, observations on this process, 172

S

Saline matter, existence of it in different fossile bodies, 10
SCHROETER, JOHN JEROME, Esq. His observations and measurements of the planet Vesta, 245
INDEX.

Sea, the Dead, an analysis of its water, - 297
Series, investigation of an important one in the inverse method of finite differences, - 114
Shark, the Blue, observations on the stomach of the, - 161
Soda, muriate of, experiments on its composition, - 301
Stoat, observations on the stomach of the, - 155
Stomachs, methods of examining their structure, - 142
-, general observations on, - 158
Substances, animal and vegetable, on the passage of chemical agents through them by means of electricity, - 28

T

Tastes, acid and alkaline, in galvanic experiments, how explained, - 53
Tin mine, on the Relistian, - 293
Turkey, observations on the stomach of the, - 144
Turtle, - 161

V

Vesta, on a new planet so called, - 245
Viper, observations on the stomach of the, - 160
Vision, newly acquired, on its peculiarities, - 90
Volta, on the mode of action of his electrical pile, - 45

W

Water, on the changes produced in it by electricity, - 2
-, on its decomposition when pure, into oxygene and hydrogen only, - 12
Wax, observations on, - 243
-, supposed to be of vegetable origin, - 244
Whale, on the structure of its stomach, - 93
-, on its digestion, - 97
Wollaston, William Hyde, M.D. on fairy rings, - 13

From the Press of
W. BULMER & Co.
Cleveland-Row, St. James's.