# Front Matter

**Author(s):** Anonymous  
**Year:** 1853  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London  
**Volume:** 143  
**Pages:** 13 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-108554  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/108554>  

---

ADVERTISEMENT.

The Committee appointed by the Royal Society to direct the publication of the Philosophical Transactions, take this opportunity to acquaint the Public, that it fully appears, as well from the Council-books and Journals of the Society, as from repeated declarations which have been made in several former Transactions, that the printing of them was always, from time to time, the single act of the respective Secretaries till the Forty-seventh Volume; the Society, as a Body, never interesting themselves any further in their publication, than by occasionally recommending the revival of them to some of their Secretaries, when, from the particular circumstances of their affairs, the Transactions had happened for any length of time to be intermitted. And this seems principally to have been done with a view to satisfy the Public, that their usual meetings were then continued, for the improvement of knowledge, and benefit of mankind, the great ends of their first institution by the Royal Charters, and which they have ever since steadily pursued.

But the Society being of late years greatly enlarged, and their communications more numerous, it was thought advisable that a Committee of their members should be appointed, to reconsider the papers read before them, and select out of them such as they should judge most proper for publication in the future Transactions; which was accordingly done upon the 26th of March 1752. And the grounds of their choice are, and will continue to be, the importance and singularity of the subjects, or the advantageous manner of treating them; without pretending to answer for the certainty of the facts, or propriety of the reasonings, contained in the several papers so published, which must still rest on the credit or judgement of their respective authors.

It is likewise necessary on this occasion to remark, that it is an established rule of the Society, to which they will always adhere, never to give their opinion, as a Body,
upon any subject, either of Nature or Art, that comes before them. And therefore
the thanks, which are frequently proposed from the Chair, to be given to the authors
of such papers as are read at their accustomed meetings, or to the persons through
whose hands they received them, are to be considered in no other light than as a
matter of civility, in return for the respect shown to the Society by those communica-
tions. The like also is to be said with regard to the several projects, inventions,
and curiosities of various kinds, which are often exhibited to the Society; the authors
whereof, or those who exhibit them, frequently take the liberty to report and even to
certify in the public newspapers, that they have met with the highest applause and
approbation. And therefore it is hoped that no regard will hereafter be paid to such
reports and public notices; which in some instances have been too lightly credited,
to the dishonour of the Society.

The Meteorological Journal hitherto kept by the Assistant Secretary at the Apart-
ments of the Royal Society, by order of the President and Council, and published in
the Philosophical Transactions, has been discontinued. The Government, on the
recommendation of the President and Council, has established at the Royal Obser-
vatory at Greenwich, under the superintendence of the Astronomer Royal, a Magneti-
cal and Meteorological Observatory, where observations are made on an extended
scale, which are regularly published. These, which correspond with the grand
scheme of observations now carrying out in different parts of the globe, supersede
the necessity of a continuance of the observations made at the Apartments of the
Royal Society, which could not be rendered so perfect as was desirable, on account
of the imperfections of the locality and the multiplied duties of the observer.
A List of Public Institutions and Individuals, entitled to receive a copy of the Philosophical Transactions of each year, on making application for the same directly or through their respective agents, within five years of the date of publication.

**Observatories.**

Armagh.
Cape of Good Hope.
Dublin.
Edinburgh.
Greenwich.
Madras.

**Institutions.**

Barbadoes .............Library and Museum.
Calcutta ..............Asiatic Society.
Cambridge ............Philosophical Society.
Dublin ................Royal Dublin Society.
Edinburgh ............Royal Irish Academy.
London ................Admiralty Library.
Chemical Society.
Entomological Society.
Geological Society.
Geological Survey of Great Britain.
Horticultural Society.
Institute of British Architects.
Institution of Civil Engineers.
Linnean Society.
London Institution.
Medical and Chirurgical Society.
Queen's Library.
Royal Asiatic Society.
Royal Astronomical Society.
Royal College of Physicians.
Royal Geographical Society.
Royal Institution of Great Britain.
Royal Society of Literature.
Society of Antiquaries.
Society for the Encouragement of Arts.
The Treasury Library.
United Service Museum.
Zoological Society.

Malta ..................Public Library.
Manchester ...........Literary and Philosophical Society.
Oxford .................Ashmolean Society.
Radcliffe Library.
Swansea ...............Royal Institution.
Woolwich .............Royal Artillery Library.

**Belgium.**

Brussels ...............Royal Academy of Sciences.

**Denmark.**

Altona .................Royal Observatory.
Copenhagen ...........Royal Society of Sciences.

**France.**

Paris ..................Academy of Sciences.
Dépôt de la Marine.
École des Mines.

Paris ..................Entomological Society.
Geographical Society.
Geological Society.
Jardin des Plantes.
Toulouse ..............Academy of Sciences.

**Germany.**

Bonn ..................Casarean Acad. of Naturalists.
Göttingen ............University.
Mannheim ............Observatory.
Munich ...............Royal Academy of Sciences.

**Italy.**

Naples ................Institute of Sciences.
Milan ................Institute of Sciences, Letters and Arts.
Modena ...............Italian Society of Sciences.
Turin ................Royal Academy of Sciences.

**Netherlands.**

Amsterdam ............Royal Institute.
Rotterdam ............Batavian Society of Experimental Philosophy.

**Prussia.**

Berlin ................Royal Academy of Sciences.
Society of Experimental Philosophy.

**Portugal.**

Lisbon ................Royal Academy of Sciences.

**Russia.**

Pulkowa ..............Observatory.
St. Petersburgh ......Imperial Academy of Sciences.

**Spain.**

Cadiz ................Observatory.

**Sweden and Norway.**

Drontheim ............Royal Society of Sciences.
Stockholm ............Royal Academy of Sciences.

**Switzerland.**

Geneva ...............Société de Phys. et d'Hist. Naturelle.

**United States.**

Boston .................American Academy of Sciences.
Cambridge ............Harvard University.
Philadelphia .........American Philosophical Society.
Washington ..........Smithsonian Institution.
Washington ..........Observatory.

The fifty Foreign Members of the Royal Society.
A List of Public Institutions and Individuals, entitled to receive a copy of the Astronomical Observations (including Magnetism and Meteorology) made at the Royal Observatory at Greenwich, on making application for the same directly or through their respective agents, within two years of the date of publication.

| Observatories          | Institutions                                      |
|-----------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| Altona                | Aberdeen…………University.                       |
| Armagh                | Berlin ……………Academy.                          |
| Berlin                | Bologna …………Academy.                            |
| Breslau               | Boston ……………American Academy of Sciences.     |
| Brussels              | Brunswick, U.S …Bowdoin College.                  |
| Cadiz                 | Cambridge ………Trinity College Library.           |
| Cambridge             | Cambridge, U.S….Harvard University.               |
| Cape of Good Hope     | Dublin …………University.                          |
| Coimbra               | Edinburgh ………University.                        |
| Copenhagen            | Royal Society.                                   |
| Dorpat                | Glasgow …………University.                         |
| Dublin                | Göttingen ………University.                        |
| Edinburgh             | Leyden …………University.                          |
| Helsingfors           | London …………Board of Ordnance.                   |
| Königsberg            | Queen’s Library.                                  |
| Madras                | Royal Institution.                               |
| Mannheim              | Royal Society.                                   |
| Marseilles            | Oxford…………Savilian Library.                   |
| Milan                 | Paris ……………Academy of Sciences.               |
| Munich                | Board of Longitude.                              |
| Oxford                | Dépôt de la Marine.                              |
| Palermo               | Philadelphia ……American Philosophical Society.    |
| Paris                 | St. Andrews ……University.                        |
| Seeberg               | St. Petersburgh …Imperial Academy.                |
| Trevandrum            | Stockholm ………Royal Academy of Sciences.         |
| Tübingen              | Upsal ……………Royal Society.                     |
| Turin                 | Waterville(U.S.)…College.                        |
| Vienna                |                                                  |
| Wilna                 |                                                  |

| Individuals           |                                                 |
|-----------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| Christie, S. H., Esq. | Woolwich.                                        |
| Lubbock, Sir John William, Bart. | London. |
| Lowndes Professor of Astronomy | Cambridge. |
| Plumian Professor of Astronomy |        |
| President of the Royal Society | London. |
| Smyth, Captain W H., R.N. | Aylesbury. |
| South, Sir James       | Kensington.                                      |
List of Observatories, Institutions and Individuals, entitled to receive a Copy of the Magnetical and Meteorological Observations made at the Royal Observatory, Greenwich.

### Observatories

- **Bombay**
- **Barnaoul** M. Prang, 1st.
- **Cairo** M. Lambert.
- **Cambridge, United States** Professor Lovering.
- **Catherineburgh** M. Rochkoff.
- **Christiania** M. Hansteen.
- **Cincinnati** Dr. Locke.
- **Gotha**
- **Hammerfest**
- **Heidelberg** M. Tiedemann.
- **Kasan** M. Simonoff.
- **Kew** F. Ronalds, Esq.
- **Kremsmünster** P. A. Reslhuber.
- **Leipsic** Professor Mobius.
- **Marburg** Professor Gerling.
- **Nertchinsk** M. Prang, 2nd.
- **Nikolaieff** Dr. Knorre.
- **Pekin** M. Gachkévitche.
- **Prague** M. Jelinek.
- **Pulkowa** M. Struve.
- **St. Petersburgh** M. Kupffer.
- **Sitka** Messrs. Homann and Ivanoff.
- **Stockholm** Professor Selander.
- **Tiflis** M. Philadelphine.
- **Toronto** Captain Lefroy, R.A.
- **Upsal** Professor Svanberg.
- **Warsaw** Col. G. Du Plat (British Consul General).
- **Washington** Lt. Maury, U.S. Navy.

### Institutions

- **Bombay** Geographical Society.
- **Bonn** University.
- **Bowditch Library** United States.
- **Cambridge** Philosophical Society.
- **Cherkow** University.
- **Falmouth** Royal Cornwall Polytechnic Society.
- **Kiew** University.
- **London** House of Lords, Library.

### London

- House of Commons, Library.
- King's College.
- Royal Society.
- University.
- University.
- Convent.
- Geographical Society.
- Smithsonian Institution.
- Office of Mag. and Met. Publication.

### Individuals

- **Bache**, Dr. A. D. Washington.
- **Barlow**, P. W., Esq. Woolwich.
- **Colebrooke**, Sir W.
- **Demidoff**, Prince Anatole de Florence.
- **Dove**, Professor Berlin.
- **Erman**, Dr. Adolph Berlin.
- **Fox**, R. W., Esq. Falmouth.
- **Gauss**, Professor Göttingen.
- **Gilliss**, Lt. J. M., U.S. Navy Washington.
- **Harris**, Sir W. Snow Plymouth.
- **Howard**, Luke, Esq. Tottenham.
- **Humboldt**, Baron von Berlin.
- **Kaemtz**, Professor Dorpat.
- **Kreil**, Professor Vienna.
- **Kupffer**, A. T. St. Petersburgh.
- **Lawson**, Henry G., Esq. Bath.
- **Lloyd**, Rev. Dr. Dublin.
- **Loomis**, Professor New York University.
- **Melvill**, J. C., Esq. East India House.
- **Mentchikoff**, Prince St. Petersburgh.
- **Phillips**, John, Esq. York.
- **Quetelet**, A. Brussels.
- **Redfield**, W. C., Esq. New York.
- **Reid**, Col. Sir W., R.E. Malta.
- **Riddell**, Capt., R.A. Woolwich.
- **Roget**, P. M., M.D. London.
- **Sabine**, Colonel, R.A. Woolwich.
- **Senftenberg**, Baron von Prague.
- **Wartmann**, Professor Elie Geneva.
- **Younghusband**, Capt., R.A. Woolwich.
CONTENTS.

I. Further Inquiries as to the Structure, Development, and Function of the Liver. By C. Handfield Jones, M.D., Cantab., F.R.S., Assistant Physician to St. Mary's Hospital .......................................................... page 1

II. On the Morphology of the Cephalous Mollusca, as illustrated by the Anatomy of certain Heteropoda and Pteropoda collected during the Voyage of H.M.S. "Rattlesnake" in 1846-50. By Thomas Henry Huxley, F.R.S., Assistant Surgeon R.N. ........................................................................... 29

III. On Rubian and its Products of Decomposition. By Edward Schunck, F.R.S. ......................................................................................... 67

IV. Observations on the Structure and Development of Bone. By John Tomes, F.R.S., Surgeon-Dentist to the Middlesex Hospital, and Campbell De Morgan, Surgeon to the Middlesex Hospital .................................................................. 109

V. On the Periodic and Non-periodic Variations of the Temperature at Toronto in Canada, from 1841 to 1852 inclusive. By Colonel Edward Sabine, of the Royal Artillery, Treas. and V.P.R.S. ........................................................................................................ 141

VI. On Periodical Laws in the larger Magnetic Disturbances. By Captain C. W. Younghusband, Royal Artillery, F.R.S. ........................................................................................................ 165
CONTENTS.

VII. On the Eclipses of Agathocles, Thales, and Xerxes. By G. B. Airy, Esq., Astronomer Royal.

VIII. On the Dissolution of Urinary Calculi in dilute Saline Fluids, at the Temperature of the Body, by the aid of Electricity. By Henry Bence Jones, M.D., F.R.S., Physician to St. George's Hospital.

IX. On Molecular Influences.—Part I. Transmission of Heat through Organic Structures. By John Tyndall, F.R.S.

X. On the Impregnation of the Ovum in the Amphibia. (Second Series, Revised.) And on the direct Agency of the Spermatozoon. By George Newport, F.R.S., F.L.S. &c.

XI. Description of some Species of the extinct Genus Nesodon, with Remarks on the primary Group (Toxodontia) of Hoofed Quadrupeds, to which that Genus is referable. By Professor Owen, F.R.S. &c.
XII. An Account of Meteorological Observations in Four Balloon Ascents, made under the direction of the Kew Observatory Committee of the British Association for the Advancement of Science. By John Welsh, Esq. Communicated by Colonel Sabine, R.A., Treas. and V.P.R.S., by the request of the Council of the British Association for the Advancement of Science . . . . . . . . . . . 311

XIII. On certain Functions of the Spinal Chord, with further Investigations into its Structure. By J. Lockhart Clarke, Esq. Communicated by Samuel Solly, Esq., F.R.S. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347

XIV. On the Thermal Effects of Fluids in Motion. By William Thomson, M.A., F.R.S., F.R.S.E., &c., Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University of Glasgow, For. Mem. of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences; and J. P. Joule, F.R.S., F.C.S., Corr. Mem. R.A. Turin, Vice-President of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester, &c. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 357

XV. On the Anatomy and Physiology of Cordylophora, a contribution to our knowledge of the Tubularian Zoophytes. By George James Allman, M.D., M.R.I.A., Professor of Botany in the University of Dublin, and Examiner in Zoology and Botany in the Queen’s University in Ireland. Communicated by Professor Edward Forbes, F.R.S. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 367

XVI. On the Change of Refrangibility of Light.—No. II. By G. G. Stokes, M.A., F.R.S., Fellow of Pembroke College, and Lucasian Professor of Mathematics in the University of Cambridge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 385

XVII. On the Secular Variation of the Moon’s Mean Motion. By J. C. Adams, Esq., M.A., F.R.S. &c. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 397
XVIII. On a Theory of the Syzygetic relations of two rational integral functions, comprising an application to the Theory of Sturm’s Functions, and that of the greatest Algebraical Common Measure. By J. J. Sylvester, M.A., Dub., F.R.S., Barrister at Law, and formerly Professor of Natural Philosophy in University College, London .................................................. 407

XIX. The Bakerian Lecture.—On the Influence of the Moon on the Magnetic Declination at Toronto, St. Helena, and Hobarton. By Colonel Edward Sabine, R.A., Treas. and V.P. ................................................................. 579

Index ............................................................................... 561

Appendix.

Presents ........................................................................ [ 1 ]