# Front Matter

**Author(s):** Anonymous  
**Year:** 1775  
**Journal:** Philosophical Transactions (1683-1775)  
**Volume:** 65  
**Pages:** 16 pages  
**Identifier:** jstor-106171  
**JSTOR URL:** <https://www.jstor.org/stable/106171>  

---

PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS,
GIVING SOME ACCOUNT OF THE Present Undertakings, Studies, and Labours, OF THE INGENIOUS, IN MANY CONSIDERABLE PARTS OF THE WORLD.

VOL. LXV. For the Year 1775.
PART I.

LONDON,

PRINTED BY W. BOWYER AND J. NICHOLS:
FOR LOCKYER DAVIS, IN HOLBOURN,
PRINTER TO THE ROYAL SOCIETY.

MDCCLXXV.
ADVERTISEMENT.

The Committee appointed by the Royal Society to direct the publication of the Philosophical Transactions, take this opportunity to acquaint the Public, that it fully appears, as well from the council-books and journals of the Society, as from repeated declarations, which have been made in several former Transactions, that the printing of them was always, from time to time, the single act of the respective Secretaries, till the Forty-seventh Volume. And this information was thought the more necessary, not only as it had been the common opinion, that they were published by the authority, and under the direction, of the Society itself; but also, because several authors, both at home and abroad, have in their writings called them the Transactions of the Royal Society. Whereas in truth the Society, as a body, never did interest themselves any further in their publication, than by occasionally recommending the revival of them to some of their Secretaries, when, from the particular circumstances of their affairs, the Transactions had happened for any length of time to be intermitted. And this seems principally to have been done with a view to satisfy the Public, that their usual meetings were then continued for the improvement of knowledge, and benefit of mankind, the great ends of their first institution by the Royal Charters, and which they have ever since steadily pursued.

But the Society being of late years greatly enlarged, and their communications more numerous, it was thought adviseable, that a Committee of their members should be appointed to reconsider the papers read before them, and select out of them such, as they should judge most proper for publication in the future Transactions; which was accordingly done upon the 26th of March 1752. And the grounds of their choice are, and will continue to be, the importance and singularity of the subjects, or the advantageous manner of treating them; without pretending
to answer for the certainty of the facts, or propriety of the reasonings, contained in the several papers so published, which must still rest on the credit or judgment of their respective authors.

It is likewise necessary on this occasion to remark, that it is an established rule of the Society, to which they will always adhere, never to give their opinion, as a body, upon any subject, either of Nature or Art, that comes before them. And therefore the thanks, which are frequently proposed from the chair, to be given to the authors of such papers, as are read at their accustomed meetings, or to the persons through whose hands they receive them, are to be considered in no other light than as a matter of civility, in return for the respect shewn to the Society by those communications. The like also is to be said with regard to the several projects, inventions, and curiosities of various kinds, which are often exhibited to the Society; the authors whereof, or those who exhibit them, frequently take the liberty to report, and even to certify in the public newspapers, that they have met with the highest applause and approbation. And therefore it is hoped, that no regard will hereafter be paid to such reports, and public notices; which in some instances have been too lightly credited, to the dishonour of the Society.

At a COUNCIL, January 28, 1773.

Resolved, That after Volume LXII. the Philosophical Transactions be published twice in a year; the first publication to be of the months of November and December of the preceding year, and January and February of the current year, as soon as may be after February, under the name of the "first part" of the volume: and the second publication to be of the remaining months unto the receipt of the Society, as soon as may be after the receipt, under the name of the "second part" of the volume.
CONTENTS

TO

VOL. LXV. PART I.

I. EXTRACT of a Letter from Dr. John Ingenhouz, F. R. S. to Sir John Pringle, Bart. P. R. S. containing some Experiments on the Torpedo, made at Leghorn, January 1, 1773 (after having been informed of those by Mr. Walsh). Dated Saltzburg, March 27, 1773. page 1

II. An Account of Two Giants Causeways, or Groups of prismatic basaltine Columns, and other curious volcanic Concretions, in the Venetian State in Italy; with some Remarks on the Characters of these and other similar Bodies, and on the physical Geography of the Countries in which they are found. Addressed to Sir John Pringle, Bart. P. R. S. by John Strange, Esq. F. R. S. p. 5

III. An Inquiry to show, what was the ancient English Weight and Measure according to the Laws or Statutes, prior to the Reign of Henry the Seventh. By Henry Norris, Esquire. Communicated by Dr. Brocklesby. p. 48

IV. The
IV. The Description of an Apparatus for impregnating Water with fixed Air; and of the Manner of conducting that Process. By John Mervin Nooth, M. D. F. R. S.

V. Account of a Musical Instrument, which was brought by Captain Fourneaux from the Isle of Amsterdam in the South Seas to London in the Year 1774, and given to the Royal Society. By Joshua Steele, Esquire, in a Letter to Sir John Pringle, Bart. P. R. S.

VI. Remarks on a larger System of Reed Pipes from the Isle of Amsterdam, with some Observations on the Nose-Flute of Otaheite. By Joshua Steele, Esq.

VII. Description of a new Dipping-needle. By Mr. J. Lorimer, of Pensacola, in a Letter to Sir John Pringle, Bart. P. R. S.

VIII. Bill of Mortality for Chester for the Year 1773. By J. Haygarth, M. D. F. R. S.

IX. Experiments on a new Colouring Substance from the Island of Amsterdam in the South Sea. Made by Mr. Peter Woulfe, F. R. S. at the Desire of Sir John Pringle, Bart. P. R. S.

X. Experiments and Observations on the Gymnotus Electricus, or Electrical Eel. By Hugh Williamson, M.D. Communicated by John Walsh, Esq. F. R. S.

XI. An Account of the Gymnotus Electricus, or Electrical Eel. In a Letter from Alexander Garden, M. D. F. R. S. to John Ellis, Esq. F. R. S.

XII. Experiments and Observations in an heated Room. By Charles Blagden, M. D. F. R. S.

XIII. The
XIII. The supposed Effect of boiling upon Water, in disposing it to freeze more readily, ascertained by Experiments. By Joseph Black, M.D. Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh, in a Letter to Sir John Pringle, Bart. P. R. S.

p. 124

XIV. Experiments on the Dipping Needle, made by Desire of the Royal Society. By Thomas Hutchins. p. 127

XV. A Meteorological Journal for the Year 1774, kept at the Royal Society's House by Order of the President and Council. p. 139
PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS,
GIVING SOME ACCOUNT OF THE Present Undertakings, Studies, and Labours, OF THE INGENIOUS, IN MANY CONSIDERABLE PARTS OF THE WORLD.

VOL. LXV. For the Year 1775.
PART II.

LONDON,

PRINTED BY W. BOWYER AND J. NICHOLS:
FOR LOCKYER DAVIS, IN HOLBOURN,
PRINTER TO THE ROYAL SOCIETY.

MDCCCLXXV.
CONTENTS

TO

VOL. LXV. PART II.

XVI. An abridged State of the Weather at London in the Year 1774, collected from the Meteorological Journal of the Royal Society. By S. Horsley, LL.D. Sec. R. S. page 167

XVII. Extract of a Meteorological Journal for the Year 1774, kept at Bristol, by Samuel Farr, M.D. p. 194

XVIII. Extract of a Register of the Barometer, Thermometer, and Rain, at Lyndon, in Rutland, 1774. By Thomas Barker, Esquire. Communicated by Sir John Pringle, Bart. P.R.S. p. 199

XIX. An Account of some Thermometrical Observations, made by Sir Robert Barker, F.R.S. at Allahabad in the East Indies, in Lat. 25° 30' N. during the Year 1767, and also during a Voyage from Madras to England, in the Year 1774. Extracted from the original Journal by the Hon. Henry Cavendish, F.R.S. p. 202

XX. A Second Essay on the Natural History of the Sea Anemonies. By the Abbé Dicquemare, Member of several Academies,
CONTENTS.

Academies, and Professor of Natural Philosophy, &c. at Havre de Grace. p. 207

XXI. Account of the Sea-Cow, and the Use made of it. By Molineux Shuldham, Esquire. Communicated by the Hon. Daines Barrington, F. R. S. p. 249

XXII. The Process of making Ice in the East Indies. By Sir Robert Barker, F. R. S. in a Letter to Dr. Brocklesby. p. 252

XXIII. Of the House-Swallow, Swift, and Sand-Martin. By the Rev. Gilbert White, in Three Letters to the Hon. Daines Barrington, F. R. S. p. 258

XXIV. Account of a Machine for raising Water, executed at Oulton, in Cheshire, in 1772. In a Letter from Mr. John Whitehurst to Dr. Franklin. p. 277

XXV. Extract of a Letter from Mr. Lexel to Dr. Morton. Dated Petersburg, June 14, 1774. p. 280

XXVI. An Investigation of a general Theorem for finding the Length of any Arc of a Conic Hyperbola, by Means of Two Elliptic Arcs, with some other new and useful Theorems deduced therefrom. By John Landen, F.R.S. p. 283

XXVII. Observations made at Chislehurst, in Kent, in the Year 1774. By the Rev. Francis Wollaston, LL.B. F.R.S. p. 290

XXVIII. Of Triangles described in Circles and about them. By John Stedman, M.D. p. 296

XXIX. De Polygonis Area vel Perimetro maximis et minimis, inscriptis Circulo, vel Circulum circumscribentibus. Authore S. Horley, LL.D. R. S. Sec. p. 301

XXX. An
XXX. An Account of an extraordinary acephalous Birth.  
By W. Cooper, M. D. in a Letter to William Hunter,  
M. D. F. R. S.  
p. 311

XXXI. Observations on the State of Population in Man- 
chester, and other adjacent Places, concluded. By Tho- 
mas Percival, M. D. F. R. S. and S. A. Communicated 
by the Rev. Dr. Price, F. R. S.  
p. 322

XXXII. An Account of the Effects of Lightning on a House, 
which was furnished with a pointed Conductor, at Ten- 
terden, in Kent. In Two Letters from Richard Haf- 
fenden, Esquire, the Proprietor of the House, to Mr. 
Henley. To which are added some Remarks by Mr. 
Henley.  
p. 336

XXXIII. Of the Torpidity of Swallows and Martins. By 
James Cornish, Surgeon, at Totnes, Devonshire, in 
sundry Letters to the Honourable Daines Barrington, 
F. R. S. and M. Maty, M. D. Sec. R. S.  
p. 343

XXXIV. Description and Use of a portable Wind Gage. 
By Dr. James Lind, Physician, at Edinburgh.  
p. 353

XXXV. Astronomical Observations made at Leicester. 
By the Rev. Mr. Ludlam, Vicar of Norton, near Lei- 
cester. Communicated by the Astronomer Royal.  
p. 366

XXXVI. Remarks and Considerations relative to the Per- 
formance of Amputation above the Knee, by the sin- 
gle circular Incision. By Benjamin Gooch, Surgeon at 
Norwich.  
p. 273

XXXVII. Concerning Aneurysms in the Thigh. By Benja- 
min Gooch, Surgeon at Norwich.  
p. 378

XXXVIII. An
XXXVIII. An Account of further Discoveries in Air. By the Rev. Joseph Priestley, LL.D. F. R. S. in Letters to Sir John Pringle, Bart. P. R. S. and the Rev. Dr. Price, F. R. S. p. 384

XXXIX. An Account of the Gymnotus Electricus. By John Hunter, F. R. S. p. 395

XL. Some Observations upon Myrrh, made in Abyssinia, in the Year 1771, and sent to William Hunter, M. D. with Specimens; in February, 1775. By James Bruce, Esq. p. 408

XLI. An Account of a curious Giant's Causeway, or Group of angular Columns, newly discovered in the Euganean Hills, near Padua, in Italy. In a Letter from John Strange, Esq. F. R. S. to Sir John Pringle, Bart. P. R. S. p. 418

XLII. Observations on the Difference between the Duration of Human Life in Towns and in Country Parishes and Villages. By the Rev. Richard Price, D. D. F. R. S. Communicated by Dr. Horsley. p. 424

XLIII. Experiments on Animals and Vegetables, with respect to the Power of producing Heat. By John Hunter, F. R. S. p. 446

XLIV. A Comparison of the Heat of London and Edinburgh. By John Roebuck, M. D. F. R. S. in a Letter to William Heberden, M. D. F. R. S. p. 459

XLV. Experiments in an heated Room. By Matthew Dobson, M. D. In a Letter to John Fothergill, M. D. F. R. S. p. 463

XLVI. Cal-
XLVI. Calculations in Spherical Trigonometry abridged. By Israel Lyons. In a Letter to Sir John Pringle, Bart. P. R. S. p. 470

XLVII. Further Experiments and Observations in an heated Room. By Charles Blagden, M. D. F. R. S. p. 484

XLVIII. A Proposal for measuring the Attraction of some Hill in this Kingdom by Astronomical Observations. By the Rev. Nevil Maskelyne, B. D. F. R. S. and Astronomer Royal. p. 494

XLIX. An Account of Observations made on the Mountain Schehallien for finding its Attraction. By the Rev. Nevil Maskelyne, B. D. F. R. S. and Astronomer Royal. p. 500